VLT/FLAMES spectroscopy of Red Giant Branch stars in the Carina dwarf
  spheroidal galaxy
The ages of individual Red Giant Branch stars (RGB) can range from 1 Gyr old
to the age of the Universe, and it is believed that the abundances of most
chemical elements in their photospheres remain unchanged with time (those that
are not affected by the 1st dredge-up). This means that they trace the ISM in
the galaxy at the time the star formed, and hence the chemical enrichment
history of the galaxy. CMD analysis has shown the Carina dwarf spheroidal
(dSph) to have had an unusually episodic star formation history (SFH) which is
expected to be reflected in the abundances of different chemical elements. We
use the VLT-FLAMES spectrograph in HR mode (R~20000) to measure the abundances
of several chemical elements in a sample of 35 RGB stars in Carina. We also
combine these abundances with photometry to derive age estimates for these
stars. This allows us to determine which of two distinct star formation (SF)
episodes the stars in our sample belong to, and thus to define the relationship
between SF and chemical enrichment during these two episodes. As is expected
from the SFH, Carina contains two distinct populations of RGB stars: one old
(>10 Gyr), which we have found to be metal-poor ([Fe/H]<-1.5), and alpha-rich
([Mg/Fe]>0.0); the other intermediate age (~2-6 Gyr), which we have found to
have a metallicity range (-1.8<[Fe/H]<-1.2) with a large spread in [alpha/Fe]
abundance, going from extremely low values ([Mg/Fe]<-0.3) to the same mean
values as the older population (<[Mg/Fe]>~0.3). We show that the chemical
enrichment history of the Carina dSph was different for each SF episode. The
earliest was short (~2-3 Gyr) and resulted in the rapid chemical enrichment of
the whole galaxy to [Fe/H] ~ -1.5 with both SNe II and SNe Ia contributions.
The subsequent episode occured after a gap of ~3-4 Gyr and appears to have
resulted in relatively little evolution in either [Fe/H] or [alpha/Fe].