Studying the dwarf galaxies in nearby groups of galaxies: spectroscopic
  and photometric data
Galaxy evolution by interaction driven transformation is probably highly
efficient in groups of galaxies. Dwarf galaxies with their shallow potential
are expected to reflect the interaction most prominently in their observable
structure. The major aim of this series of papers is to establish a data base
which allows to study the impact of group interaction onto the morphology and
star-forming properties of dwarf galaxies. Firstly, we present our selection
rules for target groups and the morphological selection method of target dwarf
member candidates. Secondly, the spectroscopic follow-up observations with the
HET are present. Thirdly, we applied own reduction methods based on adaptive
filtering to derive surface photometry of the candidates. The spectroscopic
follow-up indicate a dwarf identification success rate of roughly 55%, and a
group member success rate of about 33%. A total of 17 new low surface
brightness members is presented. For all candidates, total magnitudes, colours,
and light distribution parameters are derived and discussed in the context of
scaling relations. We point out short comings of the SDSS standard pipeline for
surface photometry for these dim objects. We conclude that our selection
strategy is rather efficient to obtain a sample of dim, low surface brightness
members of groups of galaxies within the Virgo super-cluster. The photometric
scaling relation in these X-ray dim, rather isolated groups does not
significantly differ from those of the galaxies within the Local Volume.