Fueling AGN II: Spatially Resolved Molecular Inflows and Outflows
We analyse the 2-dimensional distribution and kinematics of the stars as well
as molecular and ionised gas in the central few hundred parsecs of 5 active and
5 matched inactive galaxies. The equivalent widths of the Br-gamma line
indicate there is no on-going star formation in their nuclei, although recent
(terminated) starbursts are possible in the active galaxies. The stellar
velocity fields show no signs of non-circular motions, while the 1-0S(1) H_2
kinematics exhibit significant deviations from simple circular rotation. In the
active galaxies the H_2 kinematics reveal inflow and outflow superimposed on
disk rotation. Steady-state circumnuclear inflow is seen in three AGN, and
hydrodynamical models indicate it can be driven by a large scale bar. In three
of the five AGN, molecular outflows are spatially resolved. The outflows are
oriented such that they intersect, or have an edge close to, the disk - which
may be the source of molecular gas in the outflow. The relatively low speeds
imply the gas will fall back onto the disk; and with moderate outflow rates,
they will have only a local impact on the host galaxy. H_2 was detected in two
inactive galaxies. These exhibit chaotic circumnuclear dust morphologies and
have molecular structures that are counter-rotating with respect to the main
gas component, which could lead to gas inflow in the near future. In our
sample, all four galaxies with chaotic dust morphology in the circumnuclear
region exist in moderately dense groups with 10-15 members where accretion of
stripped gas can easily occur.