Isotope selective photodissociation of N2 by the interstellar radiation
  field and cosmic rays
Photodissociation of 14N2 and 14N15N occurs in interstellar clouds,
circumstellar envelopes, protoplanetary discs, and other environments due to UV
radiation from stellar sources and the presence of cosmic rays. This source of
N atoms initiates the formation of complex N-bearing species and influences
their isotopic composition. To study the photodissociation rates of 14N15N by
UV continuum radiation and both isotopologues in a field of cosmic ray induced
photons. To determine the effect of these on the isotopic composition of more
complex molecules. High-resolution photodissociation cross sections of N2 are
used from an accurate and comprehensive quantum- mechanical model of the
molecule based on laboratory experiments. A similarly high-resolution spectrum
of H2 emission following interactions with cosmic rays has been constructed.
The spectroscopic data are used to calculate dissociation rates which are input
into isotopically differentiated chemical models, describing an interstellar
cloud and a protoplanetary disc. The dissociation rate of 14N15N in a Draine
field assuming 30K excitation is 1.73x10-10s-1 and the rate due to cosmic rays
assuming an H2 ionisation rate of 10-16s-1 is about 10-15s-1, with up to a
factor of 10 difference between isotopologues. Shielding functions for 14N15N
by 14N2, H2, and H are presented. Incorporating these into an interstellar
cloud model, an enhancement of the atomic 15N/14N ratio is obtained due to the
self-shielding of external radiation at an extinction of about 1.5 mag. This
effect is larger where grain growth has reduced the opacity of dust to
ultraviolet radiation. The transfer of photolytic isotopic fractionation N2 to
other molecules is significant in a disc model, and is species dependent with
15N enhancement approaching a factor of 10 for HCN.