Are high velocity peaks in the Milky Way bulge due to the bar?
Recently the commissioning APOGEE observations of the Galactic bulge reported
that a significant fraction of stars ($\sim10%$) are in a cold ($\sigma_{\rm V}
\approx 30$ km/s) high velocity peak (Galactocentric radial velocity $\approx
200$ km/s). These stars are speculated to reflect the stellar orbits in the
Galactic bar. In this study, we use two $N$-body models of the Milky Way-like
disk galaxy with different bar strengths to critically examine this
possibility. The general trends of the Galactocentric radial velocity
distribution in observations and simulations are similar, but neither our
models nor the BRAVA data reveal a statistically significant cold high velocity
peak. A Monte Carlo test further suggests that it is possible for a spurious
high velocity peak to appear if there are only a limited number of stars
observed. Thus, the reported cold high velocity peak, even if it is real, is
unlikely due to stars on the bar-supporting orbits. Our models do predict an
excess of stars with high radial velocity, but not in a distinct peak. In the
distance--velocity diagram, the high velocity particles in different fields
exist at a similar distance $\sim8.5 \pm 1$ kpc away from the Sun. This result
may be explained with geometric intersections between the line-of-sight and the
particle orbits; high velocity stars naturally exist approximately at the
tangent point, without constituting a distinct peak. We further demonstrate
that even without the presence of a bar structure, particle motions in an
axisymmetric disk can also exhibit an excess of high velocity stars.