Interpreting the Role of the Magnetic Field from Dust Polarization Maps
Dust polarization observations from the Submillimeter Array (SMA) and the
Caltech Submillimeter Observatory (CSO) are analyzed with the goal of providing
a general tool to interpret the role of the magnetic field in molecular clouds.
Magnetic field and dust emission gradient orientations are observed to show
distinct patterns and features. The angle $\delta$ between these two
orientations can be interpreted as a magnetic field alignment deviation,
assuming the emission gradient orientation to coincide with the density
gradient orientation in the magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) force equation. In SMA
high-resolution (collapsing) cores, additional symmetry properties in $\delta$
can reveal accretion and outflow zones. All these observational findings
suggest the angle $\delta$ to be a relevant quantity that can assess the role
of the magnetic field. Indeed, when comparing this angle with the
(projection-free) magnetic field significance \Sigma_B (Koch et al. 2012a), it
is demonstrated that |\delta| yields an approximation to the change in
\Sigma_B. Thus, changes in the magnetic field alignment deviation $\delta$
trace changes in the role of the magnetic field. The angle $\delta$ is
observationally straightforward to determine, providing a tool to distinguish
between zones of minor or significant magnetic field impact. This is
exemplified by the CSO M+0.25+0.01, Mon R2, CO+0.02-0.02, M-0.02-0.07 sources
and by the SMA high-resolution data from W51 e2, W51 North, Orion BN/KL and
g5.89. Additional CSO sources are analyzed, providing further support of this
result. Finally, based on the different features found in our sample of 31
sources in total, covering sizes from large-scale complexes to collapsing
cores, a schematic evolutionary scenario is proposed (abridged).