A sample of relatively unstudied star clusters in the Large Magellanic
  Cloud: fundamental parameters determined from Washington photometry
To enlarge our growing sample of well-studied star clusters in the Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC), we present CCD Washington CT1 photometry to T1 ~ 23 in
the fields of twenty-three mostly unstudied clusters located in the inner disc
and outer regions of the LMC. We estimated cluster radii from star counts.
Using the cluster Washington (T1,C-T1) colour-magnitude diagrams, statistically
cleaned from field star contamination, we derived cluster ages and
metallicities from a comparison with theoretical isochrones of the Padova
group. Whenever possible, we also derived ages using delta_T1 - the magnitude
difference between the red giant clump and the main sequence turn off - and
estimated metallicities from the standard giant branch procedure. We enlarged
our sample by adding clusters with published ages and metallicities determined
on a similar scale by applying the same methods. We examined relationships
between their positions in the LMC, ages and metallicities. We find that the
two methods for age and metallicity determination agree well with each other.
Fourteen clusters are found to be intermediate-age clusters (1-2 Gyr), with
[Fe/H] values ranging from -0.4 to -0.7. The remaining nine clusters turn out
to be younger than 1 Gyr, with metallicities between 0.0 and -0.4. Our 23
clusters represent an increase of ~ 30% in the current total amount number of
well-studied LMC clusters using Washington photometry. In agreement with
previous studies, we find no evidence for a metallicity gradient. We also find
that the younger clusters were formed closer to the LMC centre than the older
ones.