Re-growth of stellar disks in mature galaxies: The two component nature
  of NGC 7217 revisited with VIRUS-W
Previous studies have reported the existence of two counter-rotating stellar
disks in the early-type spiral galaxy NGC7217. We have obtained high-resolution
optical spectroscopic data (R ~ 9000) with the new fiber-based Integral Field
Unit instrument VIRUS-W at the 2.7m telescope of the McDonald Observatory in
Texas. Our analysis confirms the existence of two components. However, we find
them to be co-rotating. The first component is the more luminous (~ 77% of the
total light), has the higher velocity dispersion (~ 170 km/s) and rotates
relatively slowly (projected $v_{max}$ = 50 km/s). The lower luminosity second
component, (~ 23% of the total light), has a low velocity dispersion (~ 20
km/s) and rotates quickly (projected $v_{max}$ = 150 km/s). The difference in
the kinematics of the two stellar components allows us to perform a kinematic
decomposition and to measure the strengths of their Mg and Fe Lick indices
separately. The rotational velocities and dispersions of the less luminous and
faster component are very similar to those of the interstellar gas as measured
from the [OIII] emission. Morphological evidence of active star formation in
this component further suggests that NGC7217 may be in the process of
(re)growing a disk inside a more massive and higher dispersion stellar halo.
The kinematically cold and regular structure of the gas disk in combination
with the central almost dust-free morphology allows us to compare the dynamical
mass inside of the central 500pc with predictions from a stellar population
analysis. We find agreement between the two if a Kroupa stellar initial mass
function is assumed.