AGN Feedback models: Correlations with star formation and observational
  implications of time evolution
We examine the correlation between the star formation rate (SFR) and black
hole accretion rate (BHAR) across a suite of different AGN feedback models,
using the time evolution of a merger simulation. By considering three different
stages of evolution, and a distinction between the nuclear and outer regions of
star formation, we consider 63 different cases. Despite many of the feedback
models fitting the M-\sigma\ relationship well, there are often distinct
differences in the SFR-BHAR correlations, with close to linear trends only
being present after the merger. Some of the models also show evolution in the
SFR-BHAR parameter space that is at times directly across the long-term
averaged SFR-BHAR correlation. This suggests that the observational SFR-BHAR
correlation found for ensembles of galaxies is an approximate statistical
trend, as suggested by Hickox et al. Decomposing the SFR into nuclear and outer
components also highlights notable differences between models and there is only
modest agreement with observational studies examining this in Seyfert galaxies.
For the fraction of the black hole mass growth from the merger event relative
to the final black hole mass, we find as much as a factor of three variation
among models. This also translates into a similar variation in the
post-starburst black hole mass growth. Overall, we find that while qualitative
features are often similar amongst models, precise quantitative analysis shows
there can be quite distinct differences.