The dusty torus in the Circinus galaxy: a dense disk and the torus
  funnel
(Abridged) With infrared interferometry it is possible to resolve the nuclear
dust distributions that are commonly associated with the dusty torus in active
galactic nuclei (AGN). The Circinus galaxy hosts the closest Seyfert 2 nucleus
and previous interferometric observations have shown that its nuclear dust
emission is well resolved.
  To better constrain the dust morphology in this active nucleus, extensive new
observations were carried out with MIDI at the Very Large Telescope
Interferometer.
  The emission is distributed in two distinct components: a disk-like emission
component with a size of ~ 0.2 $\times$ 1.1 pc and an extended component with a
size of ~ 0.8 $\times$ 1.9 pc. The disk-like component is elongated along PA ~
46{\deg} and oriented perpendicular to the ionisation cone and outflow. The
extended component is elongated along PA ~ 107{\deg}, roughly perpendicular to
the disk component and thus in polar direction. It is interpreted as emission
from the inner funnel of an extended dust distribution and shows a strong
increase in the extinction towards the south-east. We find no evidence of an
increase in the temperature of the dust towards the centre. From this we infer
that most of the near-infrared emission probably comes from parsec scales as
well. We further argue that the disk component alone is not sufficient to
provide the necessary obscuration and collimation of the ionising radiation and
outflow. The material responsible for this must instead be located on scales of
~ 1 pc, surrounding the disk.
  The clear separation of the dust emission into a disk-like emitter and a
polar elongated source will require an adaptation of our current understanding
of the dust emission in AGN. The lack of any evidence of an increase in the
dust temperature towards the centre poses a challenge for the picture of a
centrally heated dust distribution.