ALMA Observations of Warm Molecular Gas and Cold Dust in NGC 34
We present ALMA Cycle-0 observations of the CO (6-5) line emission
(rest-frame frequency = 691.473 GHz) and of the 435$\mu m$ dust continuum
emission in the nuclear region of NGC 34, a local luminous infrared galaxy
(LIRG) at a distance of 84 Mpc (1" = 407 pc) which contains a Seyfert 2 active
galactic nucleus (AGN) and a nuclear starburst. The CO emission is well
resolved by the ALMA beam ($\rm 0."26\times 0."23$), with an integrated flux of
$\rm f_{CO~(6-5)} = 1004\; (\pm 151) \; Jy\; km\; s^{-1}$. Both the morphology
and kinematics of the CO (6-5) emission are rather regular, consistent with a
compact rotating disk with a size of 200 pc. A significant emission feature is
detected on the red-shifted wing of the line profile at the frequency of the
$\rm H^{13}CN\; (8-7)$ line, with an integrated flux of $\rm 17.7 \pm 2.1
(random) \pm 2.7 (sysmatic)\; Jy\;km\; s^{-1}$. However, it cannot be ruled out
that the feature is due to an outflow of warm dense gas with a mean velocity of
$\rm 400\; km\; s^{-1}$. The continuum is resolved into an elongated
configuration, and the observed flux corresponds to a dust mass of $\rm
M_{dust} = 10^{6.97\pm 0.13}\; M_{sun}$. An unresolved central core ($\rm
radius \simeq 50\; pc$) contributes $28\%$ of the continuum flux and $19\%$ of
the CO (6-5) flux, consistent with insignificant contributions of the AGN to
both emissions. Both the CO (6-5) and continuum spatial distributions suggest a
very high gas column density ($\rm >= 10^4\; M_{sun}\; pc^{-2}$) in the nuclear
region at $\rm radius <= 100\; pc$.