Photometric and Spectroscopic Study of Abell 0671
In this paper we present a photometric and spectroscopic study of the nearby
galaxy cluster Abell 0671 (A671) with 15 intermediate-band filters in the
Beijing-Arizona-Taiwan-Connecticut (BATC) system and the Sloan Digital Sky
Survey (SDSS) data. The photometric redshift technique is applied to the galaxy
sample for further membership determination. After the color-magnitude relation
is taken into account, 97 galaxies brighter than h_batc=19.5 mag are selected
as new member galaxies. Based on the enlarged sample of cluster galaxies,
spatial distribution, dynamics of A671 are investigated. The substructures of
A671 are well shown by the sample of bright members, but it appears less
significant based on the enlarged sample, which is mainly due to larger
uncertainties in the light-of-sight velocities of the newly-selected faint
members. The SDSS r-band luminosity function of A671 is flat at faint
magnitudes, with the faint end slope parameter alpha=-1.12. The SDSS spectra
allow us to investigate the star formation history of bright cluster galaxies,
and the galaxies in the core region are found to be older than those in the
outskirts. No environmental effect is found for metallicities of the early-type
galaxies (ETGs). The positive correlation between age and stellar mass supports
the downsizing scenario. By comparing ETG absorption-line indices with the
state-of-art stellar population models, we derive the relevant parameters of
simple stellar population (such as age, [Fe/H], [Mg/Fe], [C/Fe], [N/Fe], and
[Ca/Fe]). The ETGs at cluster center tend to have smaller hb indices,
indicating that central ETGs are likely to be older. The distribution of total
metallicity indicator, [MgFe]', does not show any environmental effects. The
relations between the simple stellar population parameters and velocity
dispersion in A671 are in good agreement with previous studies.