ISM Processing in the Inner 20 pc in Galactic center
We present the Submillimeter Array (SMA) 157-pointing mosaic in 0.86 mm dust
continuum emission with 5$".1\times4"$.2 angular resolution, and the NRAO Green
Bank 100m Telescope (GBT) observations of the CS/C$^{34}$S/$^{13}$CS 1-0 and
SiO 1-0 emission with $\le20"$$\times18"$ angular resolution. The dust
continuum image marginally resolves at least several tens of 10-10$^{2}$
$M_{\odot}$ dense clumps in the 5$'$ field including the circumnuclear disk
(CND) and the exterior gas streamers. There is very good agreement between the
high resolution dust continuum map of the CND and all previous molecular line
observations. As the dust emission is the most reliable optically thin tracer
of the mass, free from most chemical and excitation effects, we demonstrate the
reality of the abundant localized structures within the CND, and their
connection to external gas structures. From the spectral line data, the
velocity dispersions of the dense clumps and their parent molecular clouds are
$\sim$10-20 times higher than their virial velocity dispersions. This supports
the idea that the CND and its immediate environment may not be stationary or
stable structures. Some of the dense gas clumps are associated with 22 GHz
water masers and 36.2 GHz and 44.1 GHz CH$_{3}$OH masers. However, we do not
find clumps which are bound by the gravity of the enclosed molecular gas.
Hence, the CH$_{3}$OH or H$_{2}$O maser emission may be due to strong
(proto)stellar feedback, which may be dispersing some of the gas clumps.