The structure and kinematics of dense gas in NGC 2068
We have carried out a survey of the NGC 2068 region in the Orion B molecular
cloud using HARP on the JCMT, in the 13CO and C18O (J = 3-2) and H13CO+ (J =
4-3) lines. We used 13CO to map the outflows in the region, and matched them
with previously defined SCUBA cores. We decomposed the C18O and H13CO+ into
Gaussian clumps, finding 26 and 8 clumps respectively. The average deconvolved
radii of these clumps is 6200 +/- 2000 AU and 3600 +/- 900 AU for C18O and
H13CO+ respectively. We have also calculated virial and gas masses for these
clumps, and hence determined how bound they are. We find that the C18O clumps
are more bound than the H13CO+ clumps (average gas mass to virial mass ratio of
4.9 compared to 1.4). We measure clump internal velocity dispersions of 0.28
+/- 0.02 kms-1 and 0.27 +/- 0.04 kms-1 for C18O and H13CO+ respectively,
although the H13CO+ values are heavily weighted by a majority of the clumps
being protostellar, and hence having intrinsically greater linewidths. We
suggest that the starless clumps correspond to local turbulence minima, and we
find that our clumps are consistent with formation by gravoturbulent
fragmentation. We also calculate inter-clump velocity dispersions of 0.39 +/-
0.05 kms-1 and 0.28 +/- 0.08 kms-1 for C18O and H13CO+ respectively. The
velocity dispersions (both internal and external) for our clumps match results
from numerical simulations of decaying turbulence in a molecular cloud.
However, there is still insufficient evidence to conclusively determine the
type of turbulence and timescale of star formation, due to the small size of
our sample.