Star Formation Activity in the Galactic HII Complex S255-S257
We present results on the star-formation activity of an optically obscured
region containing an embedded cluster (S255-IR) and molecular gas between two
evolved HII regions S255 and S257. We have studied the complex using optical,
near-infrared (NIR) imaging, optical spectroscopy and radio continnum mapping
at 15 GHz, along with Spitzer-IRAC results. It is found that the main exciting
sources of the evolved HII regions S255 and S257 and the compact HII regions
associated with S255-IR are of O9.5 - B3 V nature, consistent with previous
observations. Our NIR observations reveal 109 likely young stellar object (YSO)
candidates in an area of ~ 4'.9 x 4'.9 centered on S255-IR, which include 69
new YSO candidates. Our observations increased the number of previously
identified YSOs in this region by 32%. To see the global star formation, we
constructed the V-I/V diagram for 51 optically identified IRAC YSOs in an area
of ~ 13' x 13' centered on S255-IR. We suggest that these YSOs have an
approximate age between 0.1 - 4 Myr, indicating a non-coeval star formation.
Using spectral energy distribution models, we constrained physical properties
and evolutionary status of 31 and 16 YSO candidates outside and inside the gas
ridge, respectively. The models suggest that the sources associated within the
gas ridge are of younger population (mean age ~ 1.2 Myr) than the sources
outside the gas ridge (mean age ~ 2.5 Myr). The positions of the young sources
inside the gas ridge at the interface of the HII regions S255 and S257, favor a
site of induced star formation.