Searching for the main powering outflow objects in Cepheus A East
We present (sub)millimeter line and continuum observations in a mosaicing
mode of the massive star forming region Cepheus A East made with the
Submillimeter Array (SMA). Our mosaic covers a total area of about 3$'$
$\times$ 12$'$ centered in the HW 2/3 region. For the first time, this
observational study encloses a high angular resolution ($\sim$ 3$''$) together
with a large scale mapping of Cepheus A East. We report compact and high
velocity $^{12}$CO(2-1) emission associated with the multiple east-west bright
H$_2$ condensations present in the region. Blueshifted and redshifted gas
emission is found towards the east as well as west of HW 2/3. The observations
suggest the presence of multiple large-scale east-west outflows that seems to
be powered at smaller scales by radio sources associated with the young stars
HW2, HW3c and HW3d. A kinematical study of part of the data suggests that the
molecular outflow powered by HW2 is precesing with time as recently reported.
Our data reveal five periodic ejections of material separated approximately
every 10$^\circ$ as projected in the plane of the sky. The most recent
ejections appear to move toward the plane of the sky. An energetic explosive
event as the one that occurred in Orion BN/KL or DR21 does not explain the
kinematics, and the dynamical times of the multiple ejections found here. The
continuum observations only revealed a strong millimeter source associated with
the HW 2/3 region. High angular resolution observations allow us to resolve
this extended dusty object in only two compact sources (with spatial sizes of
approximately 300 AU) associated with HW2 and HW3c. Finally, the bright
optical/X-Ray HH 168 -- GDD37 object might be produced by strong shocks related
with the outflow from HW3c.