Estimation of high-resolution dust column density maps. Comparison of
  modified black-body fits and radiative transfer modelling
Sub-millimetre dust emission is often used to derive the column density N of
dense interstellar clouds. The observations consist of data at several
wavelengths but of variable resolution. We examine two procedures that been
proposed for the estimation of high resolution N maps. Method A uses a
low-resolution temperature map combined with higher resolution intensity data
while Method B combines N estimates from different wavelength ranges. Our aim
is to determine the accuracy of the methods relative to the true column
densities and the estimates obtainable with radiative transfer modelling. We
use magnetohydrodynamical (MHD) simulations and radiative transfer calculations
to simulate sub-millimetre observations at the wavelengths of the Herschel
Space Observatory. The observations are analysed with the methods and the
results compared to the true values and to the results from radiative transfer
modelling of observations. Both methods A and B give relatively reliable column
density estimates at the resolution of 250um data while also making use of the
longer wavelengths. For high signal-to-noise data, the results of Method B are
better correlated with the true column density, while Method A is less
sensitive to noise. When the cloud has internal heating, results of Method B
are consistent with those that would be obtained with high-resolution data.
Because of line-of-sight temperature variations, these underestimate the true
column density and, because of a favourable cancellation of errors, Method A
can sometimes give more correct values. Radiative transfer modelling, even with
very simple 3D cloud models, can provide better results. However, the
complexity of the models required for improvements increases rapidly with the
complexity and opacity of the clouds.