A necklace of dense cores in the high-mass star forming region
  G35.20-0.74N: ALMA observations
The present study aims at characterizing the massive star forming region
G35.20N, which is found associated with at least one massive outflow and
contains multiple dense cores, one of them recently found associated with a
Keplerian rotating disk. We used ALMA to observe the G35.20N region in the
continuum and line emission at 350 GHz. The observed frequency range covers
tracers of dense gas (e.g. H13CO+, C17O), molecular outflows (e.g. SiO), and
hot cores (e.g. CH3CN, CH3OH). The ALMA 870 um continuum emission map reveals
an elongated dust structure (0.15 pc long and 0.013 pc wide) perpendicular to
the large-scale molecular outflow detected in the region, and fragmented into a
number of cores with masses 1-10 Msun and sizes 1600 AU. The cores appear
regularly spaced with a separation of 0.023 pc. The emission of dense gas
tracers such as H13CO+ or C17O is extended and coincident with the dust
elongated structure. The three strongest dust cores show emission of complex
organic molecules characteristic of hot cores, with temperatures around 200 K,
and relative abundances 0.2-2x10^(-8) for CH3CN and 0.6-5x10^(-6) for CH3OH.
The two cores with highest mass (cores A and B) show coherent velocity fields,
with gradients almost aligned with the dust elongated structure. Those velocity
gradients are consistent with Keplerian disks rotating about central masses of
4-18 Msun. Perpendicular to the velocity gradients we have identified a
large-scale precessing jet/outflow associated with core B, and hints of an
east-west jet/outflow associated with core A. The elongated dust structure in
G35.20N is fragmented into a number of dense cores that may form massive stars.
Based on the velocity field of the dense gas, the orientation of the magnetic
field, and the regularly spaced fragmentation, we interpret this elongated
structure as the densest part of a 1D filament fragmenting and forming massive
stars.