The metal-poor Knee in the Fornax Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxy
We present alpha-element abundances of Mg, Si, and Ti for a large sample of
field stars in two outer fields of the Fornax dwarf spheroidal galaxy (dSph),
obtained with VLT/GIRAFFE (R~16,000). Due to the large fraction of metal-poor
stars in our sample, we are able to follow the alpha-element evolution from
[Fe/H]=-2.5 continuously to [Fe/H]=-0.7 dex. For the first time we are able to
resolve the turnover from the Type II supernovae (SNe) dominated,
alpha-enhanced plateau down to subsolar [alpha/Fe] values due to the onset of
SNe Ia, and thus to trace the chemical enrichment efficiency of the galaxy. Our
data support the general concept of an alpha-enhanced plateau at early epochs,
followed by a well-defined "knee", caused by the onset of SNe Ia, and finally a
second plateau with sub-solar [alpha/Fe] values. We find the position of this
knee to be at [Fe/H]=-1.9 and therefore significantly more metal-poor than
expected from comparison with other dSphs and standard evolutionary models.
Surprisingly, this value is rather comparable to the knee in Sculptor, a dSph
about 10 times less luminous than Fornax. Using chemical evolution models, we
find that both the position of the knee as well as the subsequent plateau at
sub-solar level can hardly be explained unless the galaxy experienced several
discrete star formation events with a drastic variation in star formation
efficiency, while a uniform star formation can be ruled out. One possible
evolutionary scenario is that Fornax experienced one or several major accretion
events from gas-rich systems in the past, so that its current stellar mass is
not indicative of the chemical evolution environment at ancient times. If
Fornax is the product of several smaller building blocks, this may also have
implications of the understanding on the formation process of dSphs in general.