Modeling the [Fe II]λ1.644μm outflow and comparison with
  H$_2$ and H$^+$ kinematics in the inner 200 pc of NGC 1068
We map the kinematics of the inner (200 pc) narrow-line region (NLR) of the
Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC 1068 using the instrument NIFS and adaptative optics at
the Gemini North Telescope. Channel maps and position-velocity diagrams are
presented at a spatial resolution of $\sim$ 10 pc and spectral resolution
$\sim$ 5300 in the emission lines [Fe II] {\lambda} 1.644 {\mu}m, H$_2$
{\lambda} 2.122 {\mu}m and Br{\gamma}. The [Fe II] emission line provides a
better coverage of the NLR outflow than the previously used [O III] {\lambda}
5007 emission line, extending beyond the area of the bi-polar cone observed in
Br{\gamma} and [O III]. This is mainly due to the contribution of the
redshifted channels to the NE of the nucleus, supporting its origin in a
partial ionized zone with additional contribution from shocks of the outflowing
gas with the galactic disc. We modeled the kinematics and geometry of the [Fe
II] emitting gas finding good agreement with the data for outflow models with
conical and lemniscate (or hourglass) geometry. We calculate a mass outflow
rate $1.9^{+1.9}_{-0.7}$ M$_{\odot}~$yr$^{-1}$ but a power for the outflow of
only 0.08% L$_{Bol}$. The molecular (H$_2$) gas kinematics is completely
distinct from that of [Fe II] and Br{\gamma}, showing radial expansion in an
off-centered $\sim$ 100 pc radius ring in the galaxy plane. The expansion
velocity decelerates from $\sim$ 200 km/s in the inner border of the ring to
approximately zero at the outer border where our previous studies found a 10
Myr stellar population.