Globules and pillars seen in the [CII] 158 micron line with SOFIA
Molecular globules and pillars are spectacular features, found only in the
interface region between a molecular cloud and an HII-region. Impacting
Far-ultraviolet (FUV) radiation creates photon dominated regions (PDRs) on
their surfaces that can be traced by typical cooling lines. With the GREAT
receiver onboard SOFIA we mapped and spectrally resolved the [CII] 158 micron
atomic fine-structure line and the highly excited 12CO J=11-10 molecular line
from three objects in Cygnus X (a pillar, a globule, and a strong IRAS source).
We focus here on the globule and compare our data with existing Spitzer data
and recent Herschel Open-Time PACS data. Extended [CII] emission and more
compact CO-emission was found in the globule. We ascribe this emission mainly
to an internal PDR, created by a possibly embedded star-cluster with at least
one early B-star. However, external PDR emission caused by the excitation by
the Cyg OB2 association cannot be fully excluded. The velocity-resolved [CII]
emission traces the emission of PDR surfaces, possible rotation of the globule,
and high-velocity outflowing gas. The globule shows a velocity shift of ~2 km/s
with respect to the expanding HII-region, which can be understood as the
residual turbulence of the molecular cloud from which the globule arose. This
scenario is compatible with recent numerical simulations that emphazise the
effect of turbulence. It is remarkable that an isolated globule shows these
strong dynamical features traced by the [CII]-line, but it demands more
observational studies to verify if there is indeed an embedded cluster of
B-stars.