The old nuclear star cluster in the Milky Way: dynamics, mass,
  statistical parallax, and black hole mass
We derive new constraints on the mass, rotation, orbit structure and
statistical parallax of the Galactic old nuclear star cluster (NSC) and the
mass of the supermassive black hole. We combine star counts and kinematic data
from Fritz et al (2014), including 2'500 line-of-sight velocities and 10'000
proper motions. We show that the difference between the proper motion
dispersions sigma_l and sigma_b cannot be explained by rotation, but is a
consequence of the flattening of the NSC. We fit the surface density
distribution of stars in the central 1000" by a spheroidal cluster with scale
~100" and a much larger nuclear disk component. We compute the two-integral
distribution function f(E,Lz) for this density model, and add rotation
self-consistently. We find that: (i) The orbit structure of the f(E,Lz) gives
an excellent match to the observed velocity dispersion profiles as well as the
proper motion and line-of-sight velocity histograms, including the double-peak
in the v_l-histograms. (ii) This requires an axial ratio of q= 0.73+-0.04 for
r<70" consistent with our determination from star counts. (iii) The NSC is
approximately described by an isotropic rotator model. (iv) Using the
corresponding Jeans equations to fit the proper motion and line-of-sight
velocity dispersions, we obtain best estimates for the NSC mass, black hole
mass, and distance M*(r<100")=(8.94+-0.31|stat+-0.9|syst)x10^6Msun,
Mbh=(3.86+-0.14|stat+-0.4|syst)x10^6Msun, and R0=8.27+-0.09|stat+-0.1|syst kpc,
where the systematic errors estimate additional uncertainties in the dynamical
modeling. (v) The combination of the cluster dynamics with the S-star orbits
around Sgr A* strongly reduces the degeneracy between black hole mass and
Galactic centre distance present in previous S-star studies. A joint
statistical analysis with the results of Gillessen et al (2009) gives
Mbh=(4.23+-0.14)x10^6Msun and R0=8.33+-0.11kpc.