Understanding star formation in molecular clouds I. Effects of
  line-of-sight contamination on the column density structure
Column-density maps of molecular clouds are one of the most important
observables in the context of molecular cloud- and star-formation (SF) studies.
With the Herschel satellite it is now possible to determine the column density
from dust emission. We use observations and simulations to demonstrate how LOS
contamination affects the column density probability distribution function
(PDF). We apply a first-order approximation (removing a constant level) to the
molecular clouds of Auriga, Maddalena, Carina and NGC3603. In perfect agreement
with the simulations, we find that the PDFs become broader, the peak shifts to
lower column densities, and the power-law tail of the PDF flattens after
correction. All PDFs have a lognormal part for low column densities with a peak
at Av~2, a deviation point (DP) from the lognormal at Av(DP)~4-5, and a
power-law tail for higher column densities. Assuming a density distribution
rho~r^-alpha, the slopes of the power-law tails correspond to alpha(PDF)=1.8,
1.75, and 2.5 for Auriga, Carina, and NGC3603 (alpha~1.5-2 is consistent
gravitational collapse). We find that low-mass and high-mass SF clouds display
differences in the overall column density structure. Massive clouds assemble
more gas in smaller cloud volumes than low-mass SF ones. However, for both
cloud types, the transition of the PDF from lognormal shape into power-law tail
is found at the same column density (at Av~4-5 mag). Low-mass and high-mass SF
clouds then have the same low column density distribution, most likely
dominated by supersonic turbulence. At higher column densities, collapse and
external pressure can form the power-law tail. The relative importance of the
two processes can vary between clouds and thus lead to the observed differences
in PDF and column density structure.