MASSIV: Mass Assembly Survey with SINFONI in VVDS. VI.
  Metallicity-related fundamental relations in star-forming galaxies at $1 < z
  < 2$
The MASSIV (Mass Assembly Survey with SINFONI in VVDS) project aims at
finding constraints on the different processes involved in galaxy evolution.
This study proposes to improve the understanding of the galaxy mass assembly
through chemical evolution using the metallicity as a tracer of the star
formation and interaction history. Methods. We analyse the full sample of
MASSIV galaxies for which a metallicity estimate has been possible, that is 48
star-forming galaxies at $z\sim 0.9-1.8$, and compute the integrated values of
some fundamental parameters, such as the stellar mass, the metallicity and the
star formation rate (SFR). The sample of star-forming galaxies at similar
redshift from zCOSMOS (P\'erez-Montero et al. 2013) is also combined with the
MASSIV sample. We study the cosmic evolution of the mass-metallicty relation
(MZR) together with the effect of close environment and galaxy kinematics on
this relation. We then focus on the so-called fundamental metallicity relation
(FMR) proposed by Mannucci et al. (2010) and other relations between stellar
mass, SFR and metallicity as studied by Lara-L\'opez et al. (2010). We
investigate if these relations are really fundamental, i.e. if they do not
evolve with redshift. Results. The MASSIV galaxies follow the expected
mass-metallicity relation for their median redshift. We find however a
significant difference between isolated and interacting galaxies as found for
local galaxies: interacting galaxies tend to have a lower metallicity. The
study of the relation between stellar mass, SFR and metallicity gives such
large scattering for our sample, even combined with zCOSMOS, that it is
diffcult to confirm or deny the existence of a fundamental relation.