A Possible Formation Scenario for Dwarf Spheroidal Galaxies - II: A
  Parameter Study
Dwarf spheroidal (dSph) galaxies are considered the basic building blocks of
the galaxy formation process in the LCDM (Lambda Cold Dark Matter) hierarchical
cosmological model. These galaxies are believed to be the most dark matter (DM)
dominated systems known, have the lowest stellar content, and are poor in gas.
Many theories attempt to explain the formation of dSph galaxies resorting to
the fact that these galaxies are mainly found orbiting large galaxies or
invoking other mechanisms of interactions. Here we show the full set of
simulation as an extension of our fiducial model, where we study the formation
of classical dSph galaxies in isolation by dissolving star clusters within the
DM halo of the dwarf galaxy. In our parameter survey we adopt cored and cusped
DM halo profiles and consider different numbers of dissolving star clusters. We
investigate the dependency of observable quantities with different masses and
scale-lengths of the DM halo and different star formation efficiencies (SFE).
We find that our proposed scenario explains many features of the classical dSph
galaxies of the Milky Way, like their morphology and their dynamics. We see
trends how the surface brightness and the scale-length of the luminous
component vary with the parameters of our simulations. We also identify how
irregularities in their shape, i.e. clumpiness and ellipticity vary in our
simulations. In velocity space, we identify the parameters leading to flat
velocity dispersions curves. We recognize kinematically cold substructures in
velocity space, named fossil remnants and stemming from our unique initial
conditions, which alter the expected results. These streaming motions are
considered as a key feature for future observation with high resolution to
validate our scenario.