LSS-GAC - A LAMOST Spectroscopic Survey of the Galactic Anti-center
As a major component of the LAMOST Galactic surveys, the LAMOST Spectroscopic
Survey of the Galactic Anti-center (LSS-GAC) will survey a significant volume
of the Galactic thin/thick disks and halo in a contiguous sky area of ~
3,400sq.deg., centered on the Galactic anti-center (|b| <= 30{\deg}, 150 <= l
<= 210{\deg}), and obtain \lambda\lambda 3800--9000 low resolution (R ~ 1,800)
spectra for a statistically complete sample of >= 3M stars of all colors,
uniformly and randomly selected from (r, g - r) and (r, r - i) Hess diagrams
obtained from a CCD imaging photometric survey of ~ 5,400sq.deg. with the Xuyi
1.04/1.20 m Schmidt Telescope, ranging from r = 14.0 to a limiting magnitude of
r = 17.8 (18.5 for limited fields). The survey will deliver spectral
classification, radial velocity Vr and stellar parameters (effective
temperature Teff, surface gravity log g and metallicity [Fe/H]) for millions of
Galactic stars. Together with Gaia which will provide accurate distances and
tangential velocities for a billion stars, the LSS-GAC will yield a unique
dataset to study the stellar populations, chemical composition, kinematics and
structure of the disks and their interface with the halo, identify streams of
debris of tidally disrupted dwarf galaxies and clusters, probe the
gravitational potential and dark matter distribution, map the 3D distribution
of interstellar dust extinction, search for rare objects (e.g. extremely
metal-poor or hyper-velocity stars), and ultimately advance our understanding
of the assemblage of the Milky Way and other galaxies and the origin of
regularity and diversity of their properties. ... (abridged)