Tracing the Orphan Stream to 55 kpc with RR Lyrae Stars
We report positions, velocities and metallicities of 50 ab-type RR Lyrae
(RRab) stars observed in the vicinity of the Orphan stellar stream. Using about
30 RRab stars classified as being likely members of the Orphan stream, we study
the metallicity and the spatial extent of the stream. We find that RRab stars
in the Orphan stream have a wide range of metallicities, from -1.5 dex to -2.7
dex. The average metallicity of the stream is -2.1 dex, identical to the value
obtained by Newberg et al. (2010) using blue horizontal branch stars. We find
that the most distant parts of the stream (40-50 kpc from the Sun) are about
0.3 dex more metal-poor than the closer parts (within ~30 kpc), suggesting a
possible metallicity gradient along the stream's length. We have extended the
previous studies and have mapped the stream up to 55 kpc from the Sun. Even
after a careful search, we did not identify any more distant RRab stars that
could plausibly be members of the Orphan stream. If confirmed with other
tracers, this result would indicate a detection of the end of the leading arm
of the stream. We have compared the distances of Orphan stream RRab stars with
the best-fit orbits obtained by Newberg et al. (2010). We find that model 6 of
Newberg et al. (2010) cannot explain the distances of the most remote Orphan
stream RRab stars, and conclude that the best fit to distances of Orphan stream
RRab stars and to the local circular velocity is provided by potentials where
the total mass of the Galaxy within 60 kpc is M_{60}~2.7x10^{11} Msun, or about
60% of the mass found by previous studies. More extensive modelling that would
consider non-spherical potentials and the possibility of misalignment between
the stream and the orbit, is highly encouraged.