NANTEN 12CO (J=1-0) observations around the star WR 55
Context: A complete study of the molecular and ionized gas in the environs of
the nebula RCW 78 around WR 55 is presented. Aims: The aim of this work is to
investigate the spatial distribution, physical characteristics, and kinematical
properties of the molecular gas linked to the galactic nebula RCW 78 to achieve
a better understanding of its interaction with the star and with the ionized
gas. Methods: This study was based on 12CO(1-0) fully sampled observations of a
region of ~0.45{\deg} in size around the star WR 55 and the nebula RCW 78
obtained with the 4-m NANTEN telescope, radio continuum archival data at 1.4
and 4.85 GHz, obtained from SGPS and PMNRAO Southern Radio Survey,
respectively, and available infrared MIPSGAL images at 24 microns. Results: A
molecular gas component in the velocity range from ~ -58 to -45 km s-1,
compatible with the velocity of the ionized gas, was found to be associated
with the optical nebula. Adopting a distance of ~ 5 kpc, the mass of this
molecular component is about 3.4 x 10^4 Msun. The analysis of the molecular
data revealed the presence of a velocity gradient, in agreement with the Halpha
line. New radiocontinuum flux density determinations confirm the thermal nature
of RCW 78. This indicates that the ionized gas in RCW 78 arises from
photoionization of the molecular gas component in the velocity range from -58
km s-1 to -45 km s-1. A molecular concentration at a velocity of -56.1 km s-1
(identified as C1) is very likely associated with the star HD 117797 and with a
collection of candidate YSOs, lying at a distance of 3.9 kpc, while the rest of
the molecular gas at velocities between -56 and -46 km s-1 constitute an
incomplete ring-like structure which expands around WR 55 at a velocity of
about ~ 5 km s-1. Mechanical energy and time requirements indicate that WR 55
is very capable of sustaining the expansion of the nebula.