AGN III - primordial activity in nuclei of late-type galaxies with
  pseudobulges
1. Based on observational data on evolution of quasars and galaxies of
different types along with the results of numerical simulations we make a
conclusion that on low redshifts ($z<0.5$) QSOI/II objects in massive
elliptical and spiral galaxies with classical bulges cannot be in late single
activity event (be "primordial"). Instead of it they have had events of
activity earlier in their evolution. It means that their presence on low
redshifts is connected with the recurrence phenomenon, sequential wet minor
mergings, because timescale of the activity does not exceed several units of
$10^7$ years.
  2. We define a new class - "AGN III" as active galactic nuclei in isolated
late-type spirals with low-mass rapidly rotating pseudobulges. We also state
that only such objects can be in the primordial phase of activity at low
redshifts. Black holes in such galaxies have masses $M_{BH}<10^7M_\odot$ and
also, probably very high spin. Such properties can explain their peculiar
emission spectra.
  A good representative of AGN III might be the galaxies with narrow (${\rm
FWHM}(H\beta)\leq1200$ km/s) broad permitted emission lines - NLS. It is
believed that their black hole masses are less than $M_{BH}<10^7M_\odot$ and
their host galaxies have pseudobulges instead of the classical ones. Because
host galaxies of NLS have pseudobulges and BLS (Broad-Line Seyfert galaxies)
have classical bulges these two types of objects cannot have evolutionary
connection. Presumably, the parent population of NLS are the quasars of
"population A".