Disk Imaging Survey of Chemistry with SMA: II. Southern Sky
  Protoplanetary Disk Data and Full Sample Statistics
This is the second in a series of papers based on data from DISCS, a
Submillimeter Array observing program aimed at spatially and spectrally
resolving the chemical composition of 12 protoplanetary disks. We present data
on six Southern sky sources - IM Lup, SAO 206462 (HD 135344b), HD 142527, AS
209, AS 205 and V4046 Sgr - which complement the six sources in the Taurus star
forming region reported previously. CO 2-1 and HCO+ 3-2 emission are detected
and resolved in all disks and show velocity patterns consistent with Keplerian
rotation. Where detected, the emission from DCO+ 3-2, N2H+ 3-2, H2CO 3-2 and
4-3,HCN 3-2 and CN 2-1 are also generally spatially resolved. The detection
rates are highest toward the M and K stars, while the F star SAO 206462 has
only weak CN and HCN emission, and H2CO alone is detected toward HD 142527.
These findings together with the statistics from the previous Taurus disks,
support the hypothesis that high detection rates of many small molecules depend
on the presence of a cold and protected disk midplane, which is less common
around F and A stars compared to M and K stars. Disk-averaged variations in the
proposed radiation tracer CN/HCN are found to be small, despite two orders of
magnitude range of spectral types and accretion rates. In contrast, the
resolved images suggest that the CN/HCN emission ratio varies with disk radius
in at least two of the systems. There are no clear observational differences in
the disk chemistry between the classical/full T Tauri disks and transitional
disks. Furthermore, the observed line emission does not depend on measured
accretion luminosities or the number of infrared lines detected, which suggests
that the chemistry outside of 100 AU is not coupled to the physical processes
that drive the chemistry in the innermost few AU.