The Bolocam Galactic Plane Survey. X. A Complete Spectroscopic Catalog
  of Dense Molecular Gas Observed toward 1.1 mm Dust Continuum Sources with 7.5
  <= l <= 194 degrees
The Bolocam Galactic Plane Survey (BGPS) is a 1.1 mm continuum survey of
dense clumps of dust throughout the Galaxy covering 170 square degrees. We
present spectroscopic observations using the Heinrich Hertz Submillimeter
Telescope of the dense gas tracers, HCO+ and N2H+ 3-2, for all 6194 sources in
the Bolocam Galactic Plane Survey v1.0.1 catalog between 7.5 <= l <= 194
degrees. This is the largest targeted spectroscopic survey of dense molecular
gas in the Milky Way to date. We find unique velocities for 3126 (50.5%) of the
BGPS v1.0.1 sources observed. Strong N2H+ 3-2 emission (T_{mb} > 0.5 K) without
HCO+ 3-2 emission does not occur in this catalog. We characterize the
properties of the dense molecular gas emission toward the entire sample. HCO+
is very sub-thermally populated and the 3-2 transitions are optically thick
toward most BGPS clumps. The median observed line width is 3.3 km/s consistent
with supersonic turbulence within BGPS clumps. We find strong correlations
between dense molecular gas integrated intensities and 1.1 mm peak flux and the
gas kinetic temperature derived from previously published NH3 observations.
These intensity correlations are driven by the sensitivity of the 3-2
transitions to excitation conditions rather than by variations in molecular
column density or abundance. We identify a subset of 113 sources with stronger
N2H+ than HCO+ integrated intensity, but we find no correlations between the
N2H+ / HCO+ ratio and 1.1 mm continuum flux density, gas kinetic temperature,
or line width. Self-absorbed profiles are rare (1.3%).