Do High-Velocity Clouds trace the Dark Matter subhalo population?
Within the cosmological concordance model, Cold Dark Matter (CDM) subhalos
form the building blocks which merge hierarchically to more massive galaxies.
Since intergalactic gas is accreted by massive galaxies, observable e.g. as
high- velocity clouds (HVCs) around the Milky Way, with extremely low
metallicities, these can be suggested to represent the baryonic content of
primordial Dark Matter (DM) subhalos. Another possibility of their origin is
that they stem from disrupted satellite galaxies, but in this case, these gas
clouds move unaccompanied by a bound DM structure. Since HVCs are observed with
long gas tails and with irregular substructures, numerical models are performed
aiming at exploring their structure and compare them with observations. If HVCs
are engulfed by DM subhalos, their gas must leave the DM gravitational
potential and reflect this in their dynamics. On the other hand, the evolution
and survival of pure gas models must be tested to distinguish between
DM-dominated and DM-free clouds and to allow conclusions on their origin. The
models demonstrate that purely baryonic HVCs with low masses are disrupted by
ram-pressure stripping and Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities, while more massive
ones survive, losing their initially spherical shape and develop significant
substructures including cometary elongations in the column density distribution
("head-tail structure"). On the contrary, HVCs with DM subhalos survive with
more than 90% of their gas mass still bound and spherically shaped, approaching
the Galactic disk like bullets. In addition, we find that velocity gradients
along the cometary head-tail structures does not necessarily offer a
possibility to distinguish between DM-dominated and purely gaseous HVCs.
Comparison of models with observations let us conclude that HVCs are not
embedded in a DM substructure and do not trace the cosmological subhalo
population.