VLT/X-shooter survey of near-infrared diffuse interstellar bands
This paper presents a spectral survey of diffuse interstellar bands (DIBs) in
the NIR range, from 0.9 to 2.5 micron. The observations were designed to detect
new DIBs, confirm previously proposed NIR DIBs, and characterise their
behaviour with respect to known line-of-sight properties (including the optical
DIBs present in our spectra). X-shooter at the VLT was used to obtained
medium-resolution spectra of eight known DIB targets and one telluric reference
star. In addition to the known 9577, 9632, 10780, 11797, and 13175 Angstroms
NIR DIBs, we confirm 9 out of the 13 NIR DIBs that were presented by Geballe
and co-workers in 2011. Furthermore, we report 12 new NIR DIB candidates. The
strengths of the strongest NIR DIBs show a general correlation with reddening,
E(B-V), but with a large scatter. Several NIR DIBs are more strongly correlated
with the 5780 Angstroms DIB strength than with E(B-V); this is especially the
case for the 15268 Angstroms DIB. The NIR DIBs are strong: the summed
equivalent widths of the five strongest NIR DIBs represent a few percent of the
total equivalent width of the entire average DIB spectrum (per unit reddening).
The NIR DIBs towards the translucent cloud HD 147889 are all weak with respect
to the general trend. No direct match was found between observed NIR DIBs and
laboratory matrix-isolation spectroscopic data of PAHs. The strong correlation
between the 5780-15268 DIB pair implies that (Nf)_5780 / (Nf)_15268 = 14.
However, the reduced strength of the 15268 Angstroms DIB in HD 147889 rules out
a common carrier for these two DIBs. Since the ionisation fraction for small
PAHs in this translucent cloud is known to be low compared to diffuse clouds,
the weakness of the 15268 Angstrom DIB suggests that an ionised species could
be the carrier of this NIR DIB. (abridged).