A Wide-Field Near-Ir H2 2.122$Î¼$m line survey of the Braid Nebula Star
  Formation Region in Cygnus OB7
Context. Outflows and jets are the first signposts of ongoing star formation
processes in any molecular cloud, yet their study in optical bands provides
limited results due to the large extinction present. Near-infrared unbiased
wide-field observations in the H2 1-0 S(1) line at 2.122{\mu}m alleviates the
problem, enabling us to detect more outflows and trace them closer to their
driving sources. Aims. As part of a large-scale multi-waveband study of ongoing
star formation in the Braid Nebula Star Formation region, we focus on a one
square degree region that includes Lynds Dark Nebula 1003 and 1004. Our goal is
to find all of the near-infrared outflows, uncover their driving sources and
estimate their evolutionary phase. Methods. We use near-infrared wide-field
observations obtained with WFCAM on UKIRT, in conjunction with
previously-published optical and archival MM data, to search for outflows and
identify their driving sources; we subsequently use colour-colour analysis to
determine the evolutionary phase of each source. Results. Within a one square
degree field we have identified 37 complex MHOs, most of which are new. After
combining our findings with other wide-field, multi-waveband observations of
the same region we were able to discern 28 outflows and at least 18 protostars.
Our analysis suggests that these protostars are younger and/or more energetic
than those of the Taurus-Auriga region. The outflow data enable us to suggest
connection between outflow ejection and repetitive FU Ori outburst events. We
also find that star formation progresses from W to E across the investigated
region.