Head-Tail Clouds: Drops to Probe the Diffuse Galactic Halo
A head-tail high-velocity cloud (HVC) is a neutral hydrogen halo cloud that
appears to be interacting with the diffuse halo medium as evident by its
compressed head trailed by a relatively diffuse tail. This paper presents a
sample of 116 head-tail HVCs across the southern sky (d < 2 deg) from the HI
Parkes All Sky Survey (HIPASS) HVC catalog, which has a spatial resolution of
15.5 arcmin (45 pc at 10 kpc) and a sensitivity of N_HI=2 x 10^(18) cm^(-2) (5
sigma). 35% of the HIPASS compact and semi-compact HVCs (CHVCs and :HVCs) can
be classified as head-tail clouds from their morphology. The clouds have
typical masses of 730 M_sun at 10 kpc (26,000 M_sun at 60 kpc) and the majority
can be associated with larger HVC complexes given their spatial and kinematic
proximity. This proximity, together with their similar properties to CHVCs and
:HVCs without head-tail structure, indicate the head-tail clouds have short
lifetimes, consistent with simulation predictions. Approximately half of the
head-tail clouds can be associated with the Magellanic System, with the
majority in the region of the Leading Arm with position angles pointing in the
general direction of the movement of the Magellanic System. The abundance in
the Leading Arm region is consistent with this feature being closer to the
Galactic disk than the Magellanic Stream and moving through a denser halo
medium. The head-tail clouds will feed the multi-phase halo medium rather than
the Galactic disk directly and provide additional evidence for a diffuse
Galactic halo medium extending to at least the distance of the Magellanic
Clouds.