Far-Ultraviolet Spectral Images of the Vela Supernova Remnant:
  Supplements and Comparisons with other Wavelength Images
We present the improved far-ultraviolet (FUV) emission-line images of the
entire Vela supernova remnant (SNR) using newly processed SPEAR/FIMS data. The
incomplete C III {\lambda}977 and O VI {\lambda}{\lambda}1032, 1038 images
presented in the previous study are updated to cover the whole region. The C IV
{\lambda}{\lambda}1548, 1551 image with a higher resolution and new images at
Si IV {\lambda}{\lambda}1394, 1403, O IV] {\lambda}1404, He II {\lambda}1640.5,
and O III] {\lambda}{\lambda}1661, 1666 are also shown. Comparison of emission
line ratios for two enhanced FUV regions reveals that the FUV emissions of the
east enhanced FUV region may be affected by nonradiative shocks of another very
young SNR, the Vela Jr. SNR (RX J0852.0-4622, G266.6-1.2). This result is the
first FUV detection that is likely associated with the Vela Jr. SNR, supporting
previous arguments that the Vela Jr. SNR is close to us. The comparison of the
improved FUV images with soft X-ray images shows that a FUV filamentary feature
forms the boundary of the northeast-southwest asymmetrical sections of the
X-ray shell. The southwest FUV features are characterized as the region where
the Vela SNR is interacting with slightly denser ambient medium within the dim
X-ray southwest section. From a comparison with the H{\alpha} image, we
identify a ring-like H{\alpha} feature overlapped with an extended hot X-ray
feature of similar size and two local peaks of C IV emission. Their
morphologies are expected when the H{\alpha} ring is in direct contact with the
near or far side of the Vela SNR.