The imprint of a symbiotic binary progenitor on the properties of
  Kepler's supernova remnant
We present a model for the Type Ia supernova remnant (SNR) of SN 1604, also
known as Kepler's SNR. We find that its main features can be explained by a
progenitor model of a symbiotic binary consisting of a white dwarf and an AGB
donor star with an initial mass of 4-5 M_sun. The slow, nitrogen rich wind
emanating from the donor star has partially been accreted by the white dwarf,
but has also created a circumstellar bubble. Based on observational evidence,
we assume that the system moves with a velocity of 250 km/s. Due to the
systemic motion the interaction between the wind and the interstellar medium
has resulted in the formation of a bow shock, which can explain the presence of
a one-sided, nitrogen rich shell. We present two-dimensional hydrodynamical
simulations of both the shell formation and the SNR evolution. The SNR
simulations show good agreement with the observed kinematic and morphological
properties of Kepler's SNR. Specifically, the model reproduces the observed
expansion parameters (m=V/(R/t)) of m=0.35 in the north and m=0.6 in the south
of Kepler's SNR. We discuss the variations among our hydrodynamical simulations
in light of the observations, and show that part of the blast wave may have
traversed through the one-sided shell completely. The simulations suggest a
distance to Kepler's SNR of 6 kpc, or otherwise require that SN 1604 was a
sub-energetic Type Ia explosion. Finally, we discuss the possible implications
of our model for Type Ia supernovae and their remnants in general.