Parkes full polarization spectra of OH masers - I. Galactic longitudes
  350 through the Galactic Centre to 41
Full polarization measurements of 1665 and 1667-MHz OH masers at sites of
massive star formation have been made with the Parkes 64-m radio telescope.
Here we present the resulting spectra for 104 northerly sources. For more than
20 masers we made new measurements with the ATCA (which also revealed several
hitherto unreported masers), in most cases yielding arcsecond precision to
match the majority of sites. Position improvements assist in distinguishing OH
masers with accompanying methanol masers from those without (thought to be at a
later stage of evolution). There was no existing linear polarization
information at many sites, and spectral resolution was sometimes poor, or
velocity coverage incomplete. These inadequacies are addressed by the present
Parkes spectra. The whole OH maser sample exhibit the well-known predominance
of highly circularly polarized features. We find that linear polarization is
also common, but usually much weaker, and we highlight the rare cases of very
pronounced linear polarization that can extend to 100 per cent. Unusually large
velocity ranges of at least 25 km/s are present at seven sites. Our spectra
measurements for most sources are at two epochs spaced by nearly one year, and
reveal high stability at most sites, and marked variability (more than factors
of two in the strongest feature) at only five sites. The spectra also provide a
valuable reference for longer term variability, with high stability evident
over the past decades at 10 sites and marked variability for four of the
sample. Future systematic monitoring of these variables may uncover further
examples of periodicity, a phenomenon so far recognised in only one source.