The large scale magnetic field structure of the spiral galaxy NGC 5775
In order to better determine the large-scale 3D-structure of magnetic fields
in spiral galaxies we present a Faraday rotation analysis of the edge-on spiral
galaxy NGC 5775. Deep radio-continuum observations in total power and linear
polarization were performed at 8.46 GHz with the VLA and the 100-m Effelsberg
telescope. They were analyzed together with archival 4.86 and 1.49 GHz
VLA-data. We thus can derive rotation measures from a comparison of three
frequencies and determine the intrinsic magnetic field structure. A very
extended halo is detected in NGC 5775, with magnetic field lines forming an
X-shaped structure. Close to the galactic disk the magnetic field is
plane-parallel. The scaleheights of the radio emission esimated for NGC 5775
are comaprable with other galaxies. The rotation measure distribution varies
smoothly on both sides along the major axis from positive to negative values.
From the derived distribution of rotation measures and the plane-parallel
intrinsic magnetic field orientation along the galactic midplane we conclude
that NGC 5775 has an 'even axisymmetric' large-scale magnetic field
configuration in the disk as generated by an \alpha \Omega -dynamo which is
accompanied by a quadrupolar poloidal field. The magnetic field lines of the
plane-parallel component are pointing 'outwards'. The observed X-shaped halo
magnetic field, however, cannot be explained by the action of the disk's
mean-field dynamo alone. It is probably due to the influence of the galactic
wind together with the dynamo action.