Galactic Kinematics from OB3 Stars with Distances determined from
  Interstellar Ca II Lines
Based on data for 102 OB3 stars with known proper motions and radial
velocities, we have tested the distances derived by Megier et al. from
interstellar Ca II spectral lines. The internal reconciliation of the distance
scales using the first derivative of the angular velocity of Galactic rotation
{\Omega}'0 and the external reconciliation with Humphreys's distance scale for
OB associations refined by Mel'nik and Dambis show that the initial distances
should be reduced by \approx 20%. Given this correction, the heliocentric
distances of these stars lie within the range 0.6-2.6 kpc. A kinematic analysis
of these stars at a fixed Galactocentric distance of the Sun, R0=8 kpc, has
allowed the following parameters to be determined:(1) the solar peculiar
velocity components (U_o,V_o,W_o)=(8.9,10.3,6.8)\pm(0.6,1.0,0.4) km/s;(2) the
Galactic rotation parameters {\Omega}_o=-31.5\pm0.9 km/s/kpc,
{\Omega}'_o=+4.49\pm0.12 km/s/kpc^2, {\Omega}"_o=-1.05\pm0.38 km/s/kpc^3, (the
corresponding Oort constants are A=17.9\pm0.5 km/s/kpc, B=-13.6\pm1.0 km/s/kpc
and the circular rotation velocity of the solar neighborhood is |V_o|=252\pm14
km/s); (3) the spiral density wave parameters, namely: the perturbation
amplitudes for the radial and azimuthal velocity components, respectively, f_R
= -12.5\pm1.1 km/s and f_{\theta}=2.0\pm1.6 km/s; the pitch angle for the
two-armed spiral pattern i=-5.3\pm0.3 degrees, with the wavelength of the
spiral density wave at the solar distance being {\lambda}=2.3\pm0.2 kpc; the
Sun's phase in the spiral wave {\chi}_o=-91\pm4 degrees.