Molecular line survey of the high-mass star-forming region NGC 6334I
  with Herschel/HIFI and the SMA
We aim at deriving the molecular abundances and temperatures of the hot
molecular cores in the high-mass star-forming region NGC 6334I and consequently
deriving their physical and astrochemical conditions. In the framework of the
Herschel guaranteed time key program CHESS, NGC 6334I is investigated by using
HIFI aboard the Herschel Space Observatory. A spectral line survey is carried
out in the frequency range 480-1907 GHz, and auxiliary interferometric data
from the SMA in the 230 GHz band provide spatial information for disentangling
the different physical components contributing to the HIFI spectrum. The
spectral lines are identified with the aid of former surveys and spectral line
catalogs. The observed spectrum is then compared to a simulated synthetic
spectrum with XCLASS, assuming local thermal equilibrium, and best fit
parameters are derived using the model optimization package MAGIX. A total of
46 molecules are identified, with 31 isotopologues, resulting in about 4300
emission and absorption lines. High- energy levels of the dominant emitter
methanol and vibrationally excited HCN are detected. The number of unidentified
lines remains low with 75, or less than 2 percent of the lines detected. The
modeling suggests that several spectral features need two or more components to
be fitted properly. Other components could be assigned to cold foreground
clouds or to outflows, most visible in the SiO emission. A chemical variation
between the two embedded hot cores is found, with more N-bearing molecules
identified in SMA1 and O-bearing molecules in SMA2. Spectral line surveys give
powerful insights into the study of the interstellar medium. Different
molecules trace different physical conditions like the inner hot core, the
envelope, the outflows or the cold foreground clouds. The derived molecular
abundances provide further constraints for astrochemical models.