A Gemini/GMOS study of the physical conditions and kinematics of the
  blue compact dwarf galaxy Mrk 996
We present an integral field spectroscopic study with the Gemini Multi-Object
Spectrograph (GMOS) of the unusual blue compact dwarf (BCD) galaxy Mrk 996. We
show through velocity and dispersion maps, emission-line intensity and ratio
maps, and by a new technique of electron density limit imaging that the
ionization properties of different regions in Mrk 996 are correlated with their
kinematic properties. From the maps, we can spatially distinguish a very dense
high-ionization zone with broad lines in the nuclear region, and a less dense
low-ionization zone with narrow lines in the circumnuclear region. Four
kinematically distinct systems of lines are identified in the integrated
spectrum of Mrk 996, suggesting stellar wind outflows from a population of
Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars in the nuclear region, superposed on an underlying
rotation pattern. From the intensities of the blue and red bumps, we derive a
population of $\sim$473 late nitrogen (WNL) stars and $\sim$98 early carbon
(WCE) stars in the nucleus of Mrk 996, resulting in a high N(WR)/N(O+WR) of
0.19. We derive, for the outer narrow-line region, an oxygen abundance
12+log(O/H)=7.94$\pm$0.30 ($\sim$ 0.2 Z$_\odot$) by using the direct T$_e$
method derived from the detected narrow [OIII]$\lambda$4363 line. The nucleus
of Mrk 996 is, however, nitrogen-enhanced by a factor of $\sim$20, in agreement
with previous CLOUDY modeling. This nitrogen enhancement is probably due to
nitrogen-enriched WR ejecta, but also to enhanced nitrogen line emission in a
high-density environment. Although we have made use here of two new methods -
Principal Component Analysis (PCA) tomography and a method for mapping low- and
high-density clouds - to analyze our data, new methodology is needed to further
exploit the wealth of information.