The Spatial Distribution of Organics toward the High-Mass YSO NGC 7538
  IRS9
Based on astrochemical theory, the complex molecular composition around
high-mass YSOs should evolve from the outer envelope in toward the central hot
region as a sequence of temperature dependent chemical pathways are activated
in ices and in the gas-phase. The resulting complex molecules have been broadly
classified into three generations dependent on the temperature (<25, >25, and
>100 K) required for formation. We combine IRAM 30m and Submillimeter Array
observations to explore the spatial distribution of organic molecules around
the high-mass young stellar object NGC 7538 IRS9, whose weak complex molecule
emission previously escaped detection, quantifying the emission and abundance
profiles of key organic molecules as a function of distance from the central
protostar. We find that emission from N-bearing organics and saturated
O-bearing organics present large increases in emission around 8000 AU and
R<3000 AU, while O-bearing molecules and hydrocarbons do not. The increase in
flux from some complex molecules in the envelope, around 8000 AU or 25 K, is
consistent with recent model predictions of an onset of complex ice chemistry
at 20-30 K. The emission increase for some molecules at R<3000 AU suggests the
presence of a weak hot core, where thermal ice evaporation and hot gas-phase
chemistry drives the chemistry. Complex organics thus form at all radii and
temperatures around this protostar, but the composition changes dramatically as
the temperature increases, which is used to constrain the chemical
generation(s) to which different classes of molecule belong.