An empirical Bayesian analysis applied to the globular cluster pulsar
  population
We describe an empirical Bayesian approach to determine the most likely size
of an astronomical population of sources of which only a small subset are
observed above some limiting flux density threshold. The method is most
naturally applied to astronomical source populations at a common distance
(e.g.,stellar populations in globular clusters), and can be applied even to
populations where a survey detects no objects. The model allows for the
inclusion of physical parameters of the stellar population and the detection
process. As an example, we apply this method to the current sample of radio
pulsars in Galactic globular clusters. Using the sample of flux density limits
on pulsar surveys in 94 globular clusters published by Boyles et al., we
examine a large number of population models with different dependencies. We
find that models which include the globular cluster two-body encounter rate,
$\Gamma$, are strongly favoured over models in which this is not a factor. The
optimal model is one in which the mean number of pulsars is proportional to
$\exp(1.5 \log \Gamma)$. This model agrees well with earlier work by Hui et al.
and provides strong support to the idea that the two-body encounter rate
directly impacts the number of neutron stars in a cluster. Our model predicts
that the total number of potentially observable globular cluster pulsars in the
Boyles et al. sample is 1070$^{+1280}_{-700}$, where the uncertainties signify
the 95% confidence interval. Scaling this result to all Galactic globular
clusters, and to account for radio pulsar beaming, we estimate the total
population to be 2280$^{+2720}_{-1490}$.