The extreme chemistry of multiple stellar populations in the metal-poor
  globular cluster NGC 4833
Our FLAMES survey of Na-O anticorrelation in globular clusters (GCs) is
extended to NGC 4833, a metal-poor GC with a long blue tail on the horizontal
branch (HB). We present the abundance analysis for a large sample of 78 red
giants based on UVES and GIRAFFE spectra acquired at the ESO-VLT. We derived
abundances of Na, O, Mg, Al, Si, Ca, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Y,
Ba, La, Nd. This is the first extensive study of this cluster from high
resolution spectroscopy. On the scale of our survey, the metallicity of NGC
4833 is [Fe/H]=-2.015+/-0.004+/-0.084 dex (rms=0.014 dex) from 12 stars
observed with UVES, where the first error is from statistics and the second one
refers to the systematic effects. The iron abundance in NGC 4833 is homogeneous
at better than 6%. On the other hand, the light elements involved in
proton-capture reactions at high temperature show the large star-to-star
variations observed in almost all GCs studied so far. The Na-O anticorrelation
in NGC 4833 is quite extended, as expected from the high temperatures reached
by stars on the HB, and NGC 4833 contains a conspicuous fraction of stars with
extreme [O/Na] ratios. More striking is the finding that large star-to-star
variations are seen also for Mg, which spans a range of more than 0.5 dex in
this GC. Depletions in Mg are correlated to the abundances of O and
anti-correlated with Na, Al, and Si abundances. This pattern suggests the
action of nuclear processing at unusually high temperatures, producing the
extreme chemistry observed in the stellar generations of NGC 4833. This extreme
changes are also seen in giants of the much more massive GCs M 54 and omega
Cen, and our conclusion is that NGC 4833 has probably lost a conpicuous
fraction of its original mass due to bulge shocking, as also indicated by its
orbit.