The Diffuse Galactic Far-Ultraviolet Sky
We present an all sky map of the diffuse Galactic far ultraviolet (1344-1786
Angstroms) background using GALEX data, covering 65% of the sky with 11.79
arcmin square pixels. We investigate the dependence of the background on
Galactic coordinates, finding that a standard cosecant model of intensity is
not a valid fit. Furthermore, we compare our map to Galactic all sky maps of
100 micron emission, N_HI column, and H-alpha intensity. We measure a
consistent low level FUV intensity at zero-points for other Galactic
quantities, indicating a 300 CU non-scattered isotropic component to the
diffuse FUV. There is also a linear relationship between FUV and 100 micron
emission below 100 micron values of 8 MJy/sr. We find a similar linear
relationship between FUV and NHI below 10^21 square cm. The relationship
between FUV and H-alpha intensity has no such constant cutoff. For all Galactic
quantities, the slope of the linear portion of the relationship decreases with
Galactic latitude. A modified cosecant model, taking into account dust
scattering asymmetry and albedo, is able to accurately fit the diffuse FUV at
latitudes above 20 degrees. The best fit model indicates an albedo, a, of 0.62
+- 0.04 and a scattering asymmetry function, g, of 0.78 +- 0.05. Deviations
from the model fit may indicate regions of excess FUV emission from
fluorescence or shock fronts, while low latitude regions with depressed FUV
emission are likely the result of self-shielding dusty clouds.