OH emission from warm and dense gas in the Orion Bar PDR
As part of a far-infrared (FIR) spectral scan with Herschel/PACS, we present
the first detection of the hydroxyl radical (OH) towards the Orion Bar
photodissociation region (PDR). Five OH rotational Lambda-doublets involving
energy levels out to E_u/k~511 K have been detected (at ~65, ~79, ~84, ~119 and
~163um). The total intensity of the OH lines is I(OH)~5x10^-4 erg s^-1 cm^-2
sr^-1. The observed emission of rotationally excited OH lines is extended and
correlates well with the high-J CO and CH^+ J=3-2 line emission (but apparently
not with water vapour), pointing towards a common origin. Nonlocal, non-LTE
radiative transfer models including excitation by the ambient FIR radiation
field suggest that OH arises in a small filling factor component of warm
(Tk~160-220 K) and dense (n_H~10^{6-7} cm^-3) gas with source-averaged OH
column densities of ~10^15 cm^-2. High density and temperature photochemical
models predict such enhanced OH columns at low depths (A_V<1) and small spatial
scales (~10^15 cm), where OH formation is driven by gas-phase endothermic
reactions of atomic oxygen with molecular hydrogen. We interpret the extended
OH emission as coming from unresolved structures exposed to far-ultraviolet
(FUV) radiation near the Bar edge (photoevaporating clumps or filaments) and
not from the lower density "interclump" medium. Photodissociation leads to
OH/H2O abundance ratios (>1) much higher than those expected in equally warm
regions without enhanced FUV radiation fields.