Deuterated methanol in Orion BN/KL
Deuterated molecules have been detected and studied toward Orion BN/KL in the
past decades, mostly with single-dish telescopes. However, high angular
resolution data are critical not only for interpreting the spatial distribution
of the deuteration ratio but also for understanding this complex region in
terms of cloud evolution involving star-forming activities and stellar
feedbacks. We present here the first high angular resolution (1.8 arcsec \times
0.8 arcsec) images of deuterated methanol CH2DOH in Orion BN/KL observed with
the IRAM Plateau de Bure Interferometer from 1999 to 2007 in the 1 to 3 mm
range. Six CH2DOH lines were detected around 105.8, 223.5, and 225.9 GHz. In
addition, three E-type methanol lines around 101-102 GHz were detected and were
used to derive the corresponding CH3OH rotational temperatures and column
densities toward different regions across Orion BN/KL. The strongest CH2DOH and
CH3OH emissions come from the Hot Core southwest region with an LSR velocity of
about 8 km/s. We derive [CH2DOH]/[CH3OH] abundance ratios of 0.8-1.3\times10^-3
toward three CH2DOH emission peaks. A new transition of CH3OD was detected at
226.2 GHz for the first time in the interstellar medium. Its distribution is
similar to that of CH2DOH. Besides, we find that the [CH2DOH]/[CH3OD] abundance
ratios are lower than unity in the central part of BN/KL. Furthermore, the HDO
3(1,2)-2(2,1) line at 225.9 GHz was detected and its emission distribution
shows a shift of a few arcseconds with respect to the deuterated methanol
emission that likely results from different excitation effects. The deuteration
ratios derived along Orion BN/KL are not markedly different from one clump to
another. However, various processes such as slow heating due to ongoing star
formation, heating by luminous infrared sources, or heating by shocks could be
competing to explain some local differences observed for these ratios.