The FMOS-COSMOS survey of star-forming galaxies at z~1.6 III. Survey
  design, performance, and sample characteristics
We present a spectroscopic survey of galaxies in the COSMOS field using the
Fiber Multi-Object Spectrograph (FMOS), a near-infrared instrument on the
Subaru Telescope. Our survey is specifically designed to detect the Halpha
emission line that falls within the H-band (1.6-1.8 um) spectroscopic window
from star-forming galaxies with 1.4 < z < 1.7 and M_stellar>~10^10 Msolar. With
the high multiplex capability of FMOS, it is now feasible to construct samples
of over one thousand galaxies having spectroscopic redshifts at epochs that
were previously challenging. The high-resolution mode (R~2600) effectively
separates Halpha and [NII]6585 thus enabling studies of the gas-phase
metallicity and photoionization state of the interstellar medium. The primary
aim of our program is to establish how star formation depends on stellar mass
and environment, both recognized as drivers of galaxy evolution at lower
redshifts. In addition to the main galaxy sample, our target selection places
priority on those detected in the far-infrared by Herschel/PACS to assess the
level of obscured star formation and investigate, in detail, outliers from the
star formation rate - stellar mass relation. Galaxies with Halpha detections
are followed up with FMOS observations at shorter wavelengths using the J-long
(1.11-1.35 um) grating to detect Hbeta and [OIII]5008 that provides an
assessment of extinction required to measure star formation rates not hampered
by dust, and an indication of embedded Active Galactic Nuclei. With 460
redshifts measured from 1153 spectra, we assess the performance of the
instrument with respect to achieving our goals, discuss inherent biases in the
sample, and detail the emission-line properties. Our higher-level data
products, including catalogs and spectra, are available to the community.