Herschel Search for O2 Toward the Orion Bar
We report the results of a search for molecular oxygen (O2) toward the Orion
Bar, a prominent photodissociation region at the southern edge of the HII
region created by the luminous Trapezium stars. We observed the spectral region
around the frequency of the O2 N_J = 3_3 - 1_2 transition at 487 GHz and the
5_4 - 3_4 transition at 774 GHz using the Heterodyne Instrument for the Far
Infrared on the Herschel Space Observatory. Neither line was detected, but the
3sigma upper limits established here translate to a total line-of-sight O2
column density < 1.5 10^16 cm^-2 for an emitting region whose temperature is
between 30K and 250 K, or < 1 10^16 cm^-2 if the O2 emitting region is
primarily at a temperature of ~< 100 K. Because the Orion Bar is oriented
nearly edge-on relative to our line of sight, the observed column density is
enhanced by a factor estimated to be between 4 and 20 relative to the face-on
value. Our upper limits imply that the face-on O2 column density is less than 4
10^15 cm^-2, a value that is below, and possibly well below, model predictions
for gas with a density of 10^4 - 10^5 cm^-3 exposed to a far ultraviolet flux
10^4 times the local value, conditions inferred from previous observations of
the Orion Bar. The discrepancy might be resolved if: (1) the adsorption energy
of O atoms to ice is greater than 800 K; (2) the total face-on Av of the Bar is
less than required for O2 to reach peak abundance; (3) the O2 emission arises
within dense clumps with a small beam filling factor; or, (4) the face-on depth
into the Bar where O2 reaches its peak abundance, which is density dependent,
corresponds to a sky position different from that sampled by our Herschel
beams.