Diffractive and refractive timescales at 4.8 GHz in PSR B0329+54
We present the results of flux density monitoring of PSR B0329+54 at the
frequency of 4.8 GHz using the 32-meter TCfA radiotelescope. The observations
were conducted between 2002 and 2005. The main goal of the project was to find
interstellar scintillation (ISS) parameters for the pulsar at the frequency at
which it was never studied in detail. To achieve this the 20 observing sessions
consisted of 3-minute integrations which on average lasted 24 hours.
  Flux density time series obtained for each session were analysed using
structure functions. For some of the individual sessions as well as for the
general average structure function we were able to identify two distinctive
timescales present, the timescales of diffractive and refractive
scintillations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case when both
scintillation timescales, t_DISS=42.7 minutes and t_RISS=305 minutes, were
observed simultaneously in a uniform data set and estimated using the same
method.
  The obtained values of the ISS parameters combined with the data found in the
literature allowed us to study the frequency dependence of these parameters
over a wide range of observing frequencies, which is crucial for understanding
the ISM turbulence. We found that the Kolmogorov spectrum is not best suited
for describing the density fluctuations of the ISM, and a power-law spectrum
with beta =4 seems to fit better with our results. We were also able to
estimate the transition frequency (transition from strong to weak scintillation
regimes) as 10.1 GHz, much higher than was previously predicted. We were also
able to estimate the strength of scattering parameter u=2.67$ and the Fresnel
scale as 6.7x10^8 meters.