Collisional Excitation of the [CII] Fine Structure Transition in
  Interstellar Clouds
We analyze the collisional excitation of the 158 micron (1900.5 GHz) fine
structure transition of ionized carbon (C+) in terms of line intensities
produced by simple cloud models. The single C+ fine structure transition is a
very important coolant of the atomic interstellar medium and of photon
dominated regions in which carbon is partially or completely in ionized form.
The [CII] line is widely used as a tracer of star formation in the Milky Way
and other galaxies. Excitation of the [CII] fine structure transition can be
via collisions with hydrogen molecules, atoms, and electrons. Velocity-resolved
observations of [CII] have become possible with the HIFI instrument on Herschel
and the GREAT instrument on SOFIA. Analysis of these observations is
complicated by the fact that it is difficult to determine the optical depth of
the [CII] line due to the relative weakness and blending of the components of
the analogous transition of 13C$+. We discuss the excitation and radiative
transition of the [CII] line, deriving analytic results for several limiting
cases and carry out numerical solutions using a large velocity gradient model
for a more inclusive analysis. We show that for antenna temperatures up to 1/3
of the brightness temperature of the gas kinetic temperature, the antenna
temperature is linearly proportional to the column density of C+ irrespective
of the optical depth of the transition, which can be referred to as the
effectively optically thin (EOT) approximation. We review the critical
densities for excitation of the [CII] line by various collision partners. We
briefly analyze C+ absorption and conclude with a discussion of C+ cooling and
how the considerations for line intensities affect the behavior of this
important coolant of the ISM.