Revisiting the shocks in BHR71: new observational constraints and H2O
  predictions for Herschel
During the formation of a star, material is ejected along powerful jets that
impact the ambient material. This outflow phenomenon plays an important role in
the regulation of star formation. Understanding the associated shocks and their
energetic effects is therefore essential to the study of star formation. We
present comparisons of shock models with observations of H$_2$ and SiO emission
in the bipolar outflow BHR71, and predict water emission, under the basic
assumption that the emission regions of the considered species coincide, at the
resolution of currently available observations. New SiO observations from APEX
are presented, and combined with \textit{Spitzer} and ground-based observations
of H$_2$ to constrain shock models. The shock regions associated with targeted
positions in the molecular outflow are studied by means of a 1D code that
generates models of the propagation of stationary shock waves, and
approximations to non-stationary ones. The SiO emission in the inner part of
the outflow is concentrated near the apex of the corresponding bow-shock that
is also seen in the pure rotational transitions of H$_2$. Simultaneous
modelling is possible for H$_2$ and SiO and leads to constraints on the silicon
pre-shock distribution on the grain mantles and/or cores. The best-fitting
models are found to be of the non-stationary type, but the degeneracy of the
solutions is still large. Pre-shock densities of 10$^4$ and 10$^5$ cm$^{-3}$
are investigated, and the associated best-model candidates have rather low
velocity (respectively, 20-30 and 10-15 km s$^{-1}$) and are not older than
1000 years. We provide emission predictions for water, focusing on the
brightest transitions, to be observed with the PACS and HIFI instruments of the
\textit{Herschel} Telescope.