The SAMI Pilot Survey: The Kinematic Morphology-Density Relation in
  Abell 85, Abell 168 and Abell 2399
We examine the kinematic morphology of early-type galaxies (ETGs) in three
galaxy clusters Abell 85, 168 and 2399. Using data from the Sydney-AAO
Multi-object Integral field spectrograph (SAMI) we measured spatially-resolved
kinematics for 79 ETGs in these clusters. We calculate $\lambda_{R}$, a proxy
for the projected specific stellar angular momentum, for each galaxy and
classify the 79 ETGs in our samples as fast or slow rotators. We calculate the
fraction of slow rotators in the ETG populations ($f_{SR}$) of the clusters to
be $0.21\pm0.08$, $0.08\pm0.08$ and $0.12\pm0.06$ for Abell 85, 168 and 2399
respectively, with an overall fraction of $0.15\pm0.04$. These numbers are
broadly consistent with the values found in the literature, confirming recent
work asserting that the fraction of slow rotators in the ETG population is
constant across many orders of magnitude in global environment.
  We examine the distribution of kinematic classes in each cluster as a
function of environment using the projected density of galaxies: the kinematic
morphology-density relation. We find that in Abell 85 $f_{SR}$ increases in
higher density regions but in Abell 168 and Abell 2399 this trend is not seen.
We examine the differences between the individual clusters to explain this. In
addition, we find slow rotators on the outskirts of two of the clusters
studied, Abell 85 and 2399. These galaxies reside in intermediate to low
density regions and have clearly not formed at the centre of a cluster
environment. We hypothesise that they formed at the centres of groups and are
falling into the clusters for the first time.