SgrA* emission at 7mm: variability and periodicity
We present the result of 6 years monitoring of SgrA*, radio source associated
to the supermassive black hole at the centre of the Milky Way. Single dish
observations were performed with the Itapetinga radio telescope at 7 mm, and
the contribution of the SgrA complex that surrounds SgrA* was subtracted and
used as instantaneous calibrator. The observations were alternated every 10 min
with those of the HII region SrgB2, which was also used as a calibrator. The
reliability of the detections was tested comparing them with simultaneous
observations using interferometric techniques. During the observing period we
detected a continuous increase in the SgrA* flux density starting in 2008, as
well as variability in timescales of days and strong intraday fluctuations. We
investigated if the continuous increase in flux density is compatible with
free-free emission from the tail of the disrupted compact cloud that is falling
towards SgrA* and concluded that the increase is most probably intrinsic to
SgrA*. Statistical analysis of the light curve using Stellingwerf and Structure
Function methods revealed the existence of two minima, 156 +/- 10 and 220 +/-
10 days. The same statistical tests applied to a simulated light curve
constructed from two quadratic sinusoidal functions superimposed to random
variability reproduced very well the results obtained with the real light
curve, if the periods were 57 and 156 days. Moreover, when a daily sampling was
used in the simulated light curve, it was possible to reproduce the 2.3 GHz
structure function obtained by Falcke in 1999, which revealed the 57 days
period, while the 106 periodicity found by Zhao et al in 2001 could be a
resonance of this period.