Molecular outflows and hot molecular core in G24.78+0.08 at
  sub-arcsecond angular resolution
Context. This study is part of a large project to study the physics of
accretion and molecular outflows towards a selected sample of high-mass
star-forming regions that show evidence of infall and rotation from previous
studies. Aims. We wish to make a thorough study at high-angular resolution of
the structure and kinematics of the HMCs and corresponding molecular outflows
in the high-mass star-forming region G24.78+0.08. Methods. We carried out SMA
and IRAM PdBI observations at 1.3 and 1.4 mm, respectively, of dust and of
typical high-density and molecular outflow tracers with resolutions of <1".
Complementary IRAM 30-m 12CO and 13CO observations were carried out to recover
the short spacing information of the molecular outflows. Results. The
millimeter continuum emission towards cores G24 A1 and A2 has been resolved
into 3 and 2 cores, respectively, and named A1, A1b, A1c, A2, and A2b. All
these cores are aligned in a southeast-northwest direction coincident with that
of the molecular outflows detected in the region, which suggests a preferential
direction for star formation in this region. The masses of the cores range from
7 to 22 Msun, and the rotational temperatures from 128 to 180 K. The
high-density tracers have revealed the existence of 2 velocity components
towards A1, one of them peaks close to the position of the millimeter continuum
peak and of the HC HII region, and is associated with the velocity gradient
seen in CH3CN towards this core, while the other one peaks southwest of core A1
and is not associated with any millimeter continuum emission peak. The
position-velocity plots along outflow A and the 13CO averaged blueshifted and
redshifted emission indicate that this outflow is driven by core A2.