Analytical star formation rate from gravoturbulent fragmentation
We present an analytical determination of the star formation rate (SFR) in
molecular clouds, based on a time-dependent extension of our analytical theory
of the stellar initial mass function (IMF). The theory yields SFR's in good
agreement with observations, suggesting that turbulence {\it is} the dominant,
initial process responsible for star formation. In contrast to previous SFR
theories, the present one does not invoke an ad-hoc density threshold for star
formation; instead, the SFR {\it continuously} increases with gas density,
naturally yielding two different characteristic regimes, thus two different
slopes in the SFR vs gas density relationship, in agreement with observational
determinations. Besides the complete SFR derivation, we also provide a
simplified expression, which reproduces reasonably well the complete
calculations and can easily be used for quick determinations of SFR's in cloud
environments. A key property at the heart of both our complete and simplified
theory is that the SFR involves a {\it density-dependent dynamical time},
characteristic of each collapsing (prestellar) overdense region in the cloud,
instead of one single mean or critical freefall timescale. Unfortunately, the
SFR also depends on some ill determined parameters, such as the core-to-star
mass conversion efficiency and the crossing timescale. Although we provide
estimates for these parameters, their uncertainty hampers a precise
quantitative determination of the SFR, within less than a factor of a few.