Deep near-infrared imaging of W3 Main: constraints on stellar cluster
  formation
Embedded clusters like W3 Main are complex and dynamically evolving systems
that represent an important phase of the star formation process. We aim at the
characterization of the entire stellar content of W3 Main in a statistical
sense to identify possible differences in evolutionary phase of the stellar
populations and find clues about the formation mechanism of this massive
embedded cluster. Methods. Deep JHKs imaging is used to derive the disk
fraction, Ks-band luminosity functions and mass functions for several
subregions in W3 Main. A two dimensional completeness analysis using artificial
star experiments is applied as a crucial ingredient to assess realistic
completeness limits for our photometry. We find an overall disk fraction of 7.7
$\pm$ 2.3%, radially varying from 9.4 $\pm$ 3.0 % in the central 1 pc to 5.6
$\pm$ 2.2 % in the outer parts of W3 Main. The mass functions derived for three
subregions are consistent with a Kroupa and Chabrier mass function. The mass
function of IRSN3 is complete down to 0.14 Msun and shows a break at M $\sim$
0.5 Msun. We interpret the higher disk fraction in the center as evidence for a
younger age of the cluster center. We find that the evolutionary sequence
observed in the low-mass stellar population is consistent with the observed age
spread among the massive stars. An analysis of the mass function variations
does not show evidence for mass segregation. W3 Main is currently still
actively forming stars, showing that the ionizing feedback of OB stars is
confined to small areas ($\sim$ 0.5 pc). The FUV feedback might be influencing
large regions of the cluster as suggested by the low overall disk fraction.