The Chemical Evolution of Globular Clusters - II. Metals and Fluorine
In the first paper in this series, we proposed a new framework in which to
model the chemical evolution of globular clusters. This model, is predicated
upon the assumption that clusters form within an interstellar medium enriched
locally by the ejecta of a single Type Ia supernova and varying numbers of
asymptotic giant branch stars, superimposed on an ambient medium pre-enriched
by low-metallicity Type II supernovae. Paper I was concerned with the
application of this model to the observed abundances of several reactive
elements and so-called non-metals for three classical intermediate-metallicity
clusters, with the hallmark of the work being the successful recovery of many
of their well-known elemental and isotopic abundance anomalies. Here, we expand
upon our initial analysis by (a) applying the model to a much broader range of
metallicities (from the factor of three explored in Paper I, to now, a factor
of ~50; i.e., essentially, the full range of Galactic globular cluster
abundances, and (b) incorporating a broader suite of chemical species,
including a number of iron-peak isotopes, heavier alpha-elements, and fluorine.
While most empirical globular cluster abundance trends are reproduced, our
model would suggest the need for a higher production of Ca, Si, and Cu in
low-metallicity (or so-called "prompt") Type Ia supernovae than predicted in
current stellar models in order to reproduce the observed trends in NGC 6752,
and a factor of two reduction in carbon production from asymptotic giant branch
stars to explain the observed trends between carbon and nitrogen. Observations
of heavy-element isotopes produced primarily by Type Ia supernovae, including
those of titanium, iron, and nickel, could support/refute unequivocally our
proposed framework. Hydrodynamical simulations would be necessary to study its
viability from a dynamical point of view.