The G305 star-forming complex: radio continuum and molecular line
  observations
We present 109-115 GHz (3 mm) wide-field spectral line observations of 12^CO,
13^CO and C^18O J=1-0 molecular emission and 5.5 and 8.8 GHz (6 and 3 cm) radio
continuum emission towards the high-mass star forming complex known as G305.
The morphology of G305 is dominated by a large evacuated cavity at the centre
of the complex driven by clusters of O stars surrounded by molecular gas. Our
goals are to determine the physical properties of the molecular environment and
reveal the relationship between the molecular and ionised gas and star
formation in G305. This is in an effort to characterise the star-forming
environment and constrain the star formation history in an attempt to evaluate
the impact of high-mass stars on the evolution of the G305 complex.
  Analysis of CO emission in G305 reveals 156 molecular clumps with the
following physical characteristics. The 5.5 and 8.8GHz radio continuum emission
reveals an extended low surface brightness ionised environment within which we
identify 15 large-scale features with a further eight smaller sources projected
within these features. By comparing to mid infrared emission and archival data,
we identify nine HII regions, seven compact HII regions, one UC HII region,
four extended regions. The total integrated flux of the radio continuum
emission at 5.5 GHz is ~180 Jy corresponding to a Lyman continuum output of
2.4x10^50 photons s^-1. We compare the ionised and molecular environment with
optically identified high-mass stars and ongoing star formation, identified
from the literature. Analysis of this dataset reveals a star formation rate of
0.008--0.016 and efficiency of 7--12%, allows us to probe the star formation
history of the region and discuss the impact of high-mass stars on the
evolution of G305.