Disentangling the entangled: Observations and analysis of the triple
  non-coeval protostellar system VLA1623
Commonplace at every evolutionary stage, Multiple Protostellar Systems (MPSs)
are thought to be formed through fragmentation, but it is unclear when and how.
The youngest MPSs, which have not yet undergone much evolution, provide
important constraints to this question. It is then of interest to disentangle
early stage MPSs. In this letter we present the results of our work on VLA1623
using our observations and archival data from the Submillimeter Array (SMA).
Our continuum and line observations trace VLA1623's components, outflow and
envelope, revealing unexpected characteristics. We construct the SED for each
component using the results of our work and data from literature, as well as
derive physical parameters from continuum and perform a simple kinematical
analysis of the circumstellar material. Our results show VLA1623 to be a triple
non-coeval system composed of VLA1623A, B & W, with each source driving its own
outflow and unevenly distributed circumstellar material. From the SED, physical
parameters and IR emission we conclude that VLA1623A & W are Class 0 and I
protostars, respectively, and together drive the bulk of the observed outflow.
Furthermore, we find two surprising results, first the presence of a rotating
disk-like structure about VLA1623A with indications of pure Keplerian rotation,
which, if real, would make it one of the first evidence of Keplerian disk
structures around Class 0 protostars. Second, we find VLA1623B to be a bonafide
extremely young protostellar object between the starless core and Class 0
stages.