Laboratory and tentative interstellar detection of trans-methyl formate
  using the publicly available Green Bank Telescope PRIMOS survey
The rotational spectrum of the higher-energy trans conformational isomer of
methyl formate has been assigned for the first time using several pulsed-jet
Fourier transform microwave spectrometers in the 6-60 GHz frequency range. This
species has also been sought toward the Sagittarius B2(N) molecular cloud using
the publicly available PRIMOS survey from the Green Bank Telescope. We detect
seven absorption features in the survey that coincide with laboratory
transitions of trans-methyl formate, from which we derive a column density of
3.1 (+2.6, -1.2) \times 10^13 cm-2 and a rotational temperature of 7.6 \pm 1.5
K. This excitation temperature is significantly lower than that of the more
stable cis conformer in the same source but is consistent with that of other
complex molecular species recently detected in Sgr B2(N). The difference in the
rotational temperatures of the two conformers suggests that they have different
spatial distributions in this source. As the abundance of trans-methyl formate
is far higher than would be expected if the cis and trans conformers are in
thermodynamic equilibrium, processes that could preferentially form
trans-methyl formate in this region are discussed. We also discuss measurements
that could be performed to make this detection more certain. This manuscript
demonstrates how publicly available broadband radio astronomical surveys of
chemically rich molecular clouds can be used in conjunction with laboratory
rotational spectroscopy to search for new molecules in the interstellar medium.