Probing MHD Shocks with high-J CO observations: W28F
Context. Observing supernova remnants (SNRs) and modelling the shocks they
are associated with is the best way to quantify the energy SNRs re-distribute
back into the Interstellar Medium (ISM). Aims. We present comparisons of shock
models with CO observations in the F knot of the W28 supernova remnant. These
comparisons constitute a valuable tool to constrain both the shock
characteristics and pre-shock conditions. Methods. New CO observations from the
shocked regions with the APEX and SOFIA telescopes are presented and combined.
The integrated intensities are compared to the outputs of a grid of models,
which were combined from an MHD shock code that calculates the dynamical and
chemical structure of these regions, and a radiative transfer module based on
the 'large velocity gradient' (LVG) approximation. Results. We base our
modelling method on the higher J CO transitions, which unambiguously trace the
passage of a shock wave. We provide fits for the blue- and red-lobe components
of the observed shocks. We find that only stationary, C-type shock models can
reproduce the observed levels of CO emission. Our best models are found for a
pre-shock density of 104 cm-3, with the magnetic field strength varying between
45 and 100 {\mu}G, and a higher shock velocity for the so-called blue shock
(\sim25 km s-1) than for the red one (\sim20 km s-1). Our models also
satisfactorily account for the pure rotational H2 emission that is observed
with Spitzer.