A (sub)millimetre study of dense cores in Orion B9
We aim to further constrain the properties and evolutionary stages of dense
cores in Orion B9. The central part of Orion B9 was mapped at 350 micron with
APEX/SABOCA. A sample of nine cores in the region were observed in C17O(2-1),
H13CO+(4-3) (towards 3 sources), DCO+(4-3), N2H+(3-2), and N2D+(3-2) with
APEX/SHFI. These data are used in conjunction with our previous APEX/LABOCA
870-micron dust continuum data. Many of the LABOCA cores show evidence of
substructure in the higher-resolution SABOCA image. In particular, we report on
the discovery of multiple very low-mass condensations in the prestellar core
SMM 6. Based on the 350-to-870 micron flux density ratios, we determine dust
temperatures of ~7.9-10.8 K, and dust emissivity indices of ~0.5-1.8. The CO
depletion factors are in the range ~1.6-10.8. The degree of deuteration in N2H+
is ~0.04-0.99, where the highest value (seen towards the prestellar core SMM 1)
is, to our knowledge, the most extreme level of N2H+ deuteration reported so
far. The level of HCO+ deuteration is about 1-2%. We also detected D2CO towards
two sources. The detection of subcondensations within SMM 6 shows that core
fragmentation can already take place during the prestellar phase. The origin of
this substructure is likely caused by thermal Jeans fragmentation of the
elongated parent core. A low depletion factor and the presence of gas-phase
D2CO in SMM 1 suggest that the core chemistry is affected by the nearby
outflow. The very high N2H+ deuteration in SMM 1 is likely to be remnant of the
earlier CO-depleted phase.