Cluster-formation in the Rosette molecular cloud at the junctions of
  filaments
For many years feedback processes generated by OB-stars in molecular clouds,
including expanding ionization fronts, stellar winds, or UV-radiation, have
been proposed to trigger subsequent star formation. However, hydrodynamic
models including radiation and gravity show that UV-illumination has little or
no impact on the global dynamical evolution of the cloud. The Rosette molecular
cloud, irradiated by the NGC2244 cluster, is a template region for triggered
star-formation, and we investigated its spatial and density structure by
applying a curvelet analysis, a filament-tracing algorithm (DisPerSE), and
probability density functions (PDFs) on Herschel column density maps, obtained
within the HOBYS key program. The analysis reveals not only the filamentary
structure of the cloud but also that all known infrared clusters except one lie
at junctions of filaments, as predicted by turbulence simulations. The PDFs of
sub-regions in the cloud show systematic differences. The two UV-exposed
regions have a double-peaked PDF we interprete as caused by shock compression.
The deviations of the PDF from the log-normal shape typically associated with
low- and high-mass star-forming regions at Av~3-4m and 8-10m, respectively, are
found here within the very same cloud. This shows that there is no fundamental
difference in the density structure of low- and high-mass star-forming regions.
We conclude that star-formation in Rosette - and probably in high-mass
star-forming clouds in general - is not globally triggered by the impact of
UV-radiation. Moreover, star formation takes place in filaments that arose from
the primordial turbulent structure built up during the formation of the cloud.
Clusters form at filament mergers, but star formation can be locally induced in
the direct interaction zone between an expanding HII--region and the molecular
cloud.