Detection of Anomalous Microwave Emission in the Pleiades Reflection
  Nebula with WMAP and the COSMOSOMAS Experiment
We present evidence for anomalous microwave emission (AME) in the Pleiades
reflection nebula, using data from the seven-year release of the Wilkinson
Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) and from the COSMOSOMAS experiment. The flux
integrated in a 1-degree radius around R.A.=56.24^{\circ}, Dec.=23.78^{\circ}
(J2000) is 2.15 +/- 0.12 Jy at 22.8 GHz, where AME is dominant. COSMOSOMAS data
show no significant emission, but allow to set upper limits of 0.94 and 1.58 Jy
(99.7% C.L.) respectively at 10.9 and 14.7 GHz, which are crucial to pin down
the AME spectrum at these frequencies, and to discard any other emission
mechanisms which could have an important contribution to the signal detected at
22.8 GHz. We estimate the expected level of free-free emission from an
extinction-corrected H-alpha template, while the thermal dust emission is
characterized from infrared DIRBE data and extrapolated to microwave
frequencies. When we deduct the contribution from these two components at 22.8
GHz the residual flux, associated with AME, is 2.12 +/- 0.12 Jy (17.7-sigma).
The spectral energy distribution from 10 to 60 GHz can be accurately fitted
with a model of electric dipole emission from small spinning dust grains
distributed in two separated phases of molecular and atomic gas, respectively.
  The dust emissivity, calculated by correlating the 22.8 GHz data with
100-micron data, is found to be 4.36+/-0.17 muK/MJy/sr, a value that is rather
low compared with typical values in dust clouds. The physical properties of the
Pleiades nebula indicate that this is indeed a much less opaque object than
others were AME has usually been detected. This fact, together with the broad
knowledge of the stellar content of this region, provides an excellent testbed
for AME characterization in physical conditions different from those generally
explored up to now.