Probing the interstellar medium of NGC1569 with Herschel
NGC1569 has some of the most vigorous star formation among nearby galaxies.
It hosts two super star clusters (SSCs) and has a higher star formation rate
(SFR) per unit area than other starburst dwarf galaxies. Extended emission
beyond the galaxy's optical body is observed in warm and hot ionised and atomic
hydrogen gas; a cavity surrounds the SSCs. We aim to understand the impact of
the massive star formation on the surrounding interstellar medium in NGC1569
through a study of its stellar and dust properties. We use Herschel and
ancillary multiwavelength observations, from the ultraviolet to the
submillimeter regime, to construct its spectral energy distribution, which we
model with magphys on ~300pc scales at the SPIRE250 {\mu}m resolution. The
multiwavelength morphology shows low levels of dust emission in the cavity, and
a concentration of several dust knots in its periphery. The extended emission
seen in the ionised and neutral hydrogen observations is also present in the
far-infrared emission. The dust mass is higher in the periphery of the cavity,
driven by ongoing star formation and dust emission knots. The SFR is highest in
the central region, while the specific SFR is more sensitive to the ongoing
star formation. The region encompassing the cavity and SSCs contains only 12
per cent of the dust mass of the central starburst, in accord with other
tracers of the interstellar medium. The gas-to-dust mass ratio is lower in the
cavity and fluctuates to higher values in its periphery.