Dust continuum and Polarization from Envelope to Cores in Star
  Formation: A Case Study in the W51 North region
We present the first high-angular resolution (up to 0.7", ~5000 AU)
polarization and thermal dust continuum images toward the massive star-forming
region W51 North. The observations were carried out with the Submillimeter
Array (SMA) in both the subcompact (SMA-SubC) and extended (SMA-Ext)
configurations at a wavelength of 870 micron. W51 North is resolved into four
cores (SMA1 to SMA4) in the 870 micron continuum image. The associated dust
polarization exhibits more complex structures than seen at lower angular
resolution. We analyze the inferred morphologies of the plane-of-sky magnetic
field (B_bot) in the SMA1 to SMA4 cores and in the envelope using the SMA-Ext
and SMA-SubC data. These results are compared with the B_bot archive images
obtained from the CSO and JCMT. A correlation between dust intensity gradient
position angles (phi_{nabla I}) and magnetic field position angles (phi_B) is
found in the CSO, JCMT and both SMA data sets. This correlation is further
analyzed quantitatively. A systematically tighter correlation between
phi_{nabla I} and phi_B is found in the cores, whereas the correlation
decreases in outside-core regions. Magnetic field-to-gravity force ratio
(Sigma_B) maps are derived using the newly developed polarization - intensity
gradient method by Koch, Tang & Ho 2012. We find that the force ratios tend to
be small (Sigma_B <= 0.5) in the cores in all 4 data sets. In regions outside
of the cores, the ratios increase or the field is even dominating gravity
(Sigma_B > 1). This possibly provides a physical explanation of the tightening
correlation between phi_{nabla I} and phi_B in the cores: the more the B field
lines are dragged and aligned by gravity, the tighter the correlation is.
Finally, we propose a schematic scenario for the magnetic field in W51 North to
interpret the four polarization observations at different physical scales.