Chemical abundances of the Milky Way thick disk and stellar halo II.:
  sodium, iron-peak and neutron-capture elements
We present chemical abundance analyses of sodium, iron-peak and
neutron-capture elements for 97 kinematically selected thick disk, inner halo
and outer halo stars with metallicities -3.3<[Fe/H]<-0.5. The main aim of this
study is to examine chemical similarities and differences among metal-poor
stars belonging to these old Galactic components as a clue to determine their
early chemodynamical evolution. In our previous paper, we obtained abundances
of alpha elements by performing a one-dimensional LTE abundance analysis based
on the high-resolution (R~50000) spectra obtained with the Subaru/HDS. In this
paper, a similar analysis is performed to determine abundances of an additional
17 elements. We show that, in metallicities below [Fe/H]~-2, the abundance
ratios of many elements in the thick disk, inner halo, and outer halo
subsamples are largely similar. In contrast, in higher metallicities
([Fe/H]>-1.5), differences in some of the abundance ratios among the three
subsamples are identified. Specifically, the [Na/Fe], [Ni/Fe], [Cu/Fe], and
[Zn/Fe] ratios in the inner and outer halo subsamples are found to be lower
than those in the thick disk subsample. In contrast to what was observed for
[Mg/Fe] in our previous paper, [Eu/Fe] ratios are more enhanced in the two halo
subsamples rather than in the thick disk subsample. The observed distinct
chemical abundances of some elements between the thick disk and inner/outer
halo subsamples with [Fe/H]>-1.5 support the hypothesis that these components
formed through different mechanisms. In particular, our results favor the
scenario that the inner and outer halo components formed through an assembly of
multiple progenitor systems that experienced various degrees of chemical
enrichments, while the thick disk formed through rapid star formation with an
efficient mixing of chemical elements.