Validation of optimised population synthesis through mock spectra and
  Galactic globular clusters
Optimised population synthesis provides an empirical method to extract the
relative mix of stellar evolutionary stages and the distribution of atmospheric
parameters within unresolved stellar systems, yet a robust validation of this
method is still lacking. We here provide a calibration of population synthesis
via non-linear bound-constrained optimisation of stellar populations based upon
optical spectra of mock stellar systems and observed Galactic Globular Clusters
(GGCs). The MILES stellar library is used as a basis for mock spectra as well
as templates for the synthesis of deep GGC spectra from Schiavon et al. (2005).
Optimised population synthesis applied to mock spectra recovers mean
light-weighted stellar atmospheric parameters to within a mean uncertainty of
240 K, 0.04 dex, and 0.03 dex for T_eff, log(g), and [Fe/H], respectively.
Decompositions of both mock and GGC spectra confirm the method's ability to
recover the expected mean light-weighted metallicity in dust-free conditions
(E[B-V] < 0.15) with uncertainties comparable to evolutionary population
synthesis methods. Dustier conditions require either appropriate dust-modelling
when fitting to the full spectrum, or fitting only to select spectral features.
We derive light-weighted fractions of stellar evolutionary stages from our
population synthesis fits to GGCs, yielding on average a combined 25+/-6 per
cent from main sequence and turnoff dwarfs, 64+/-7 per cent from subgiant, red
giant and asymptotic giant branch stars, and 15+/-7 per cent from horizontal
branch stars and blue stragglers. Excellent agreement is found between these
fractions and those estimated from deep HST/ACS CMDs. Overall, optimised
population synthesis remains a powerful tool for understanding the stellar
populations within the integrated light of galaxies and globular clusters.