Two Pseudobulges in the "Boxy Bulge" Galaxy NGC 5746
Galaxy formation and growth under the {\Lambda}CDM paradigm is expected to
proceed in a hierarchical, bottom-up fashion by which small galaxies grow into
large galaxies; this mechanism leaves behind large "classical bulges"
kinematically distinct from "pseudobulges" grown by internal, secular
processes. We use archival data (Spitzer 3.6 \mum wavelength, Hubble Space
Telescope H-band, Two Micron All Sky Survey Ks-band, and Sloan Digital Sky
Survey gri-band) to measure composite minor- and major-axis surface brightness
profiles of the almost-edgeon spiral galaxy NGC 5746. These light profiles span
a large range of radii and surface brightnesses to reveal an inner, high
surface brightness stellar component that is distinct from the well-known boxy
bulge. It is well fitted by S\'ersic functions with indices n = 0.99 \pm 0.08
and 1.17 \pm 0.24 along the minor and major axes, respectively. Since n < 2, we
conclude that this innermost component is a secularly-evolved pseudobulge that
is distinct from the boxy pseudobulge. This inner pseduobulge makes up 0.136
\pm 0.019 of the total light of the galaxy. It is therefore considerably less
luminous than the boxy structure, which is now understood to be a bar seen
nearly end-on. The infrared imagery shows further evidence for secular
evolution in the form of a bright inner ring of inner radius 9.1 kpc and width
1.6 kpc. NGC 5746 is therefore a giant, pure-disk SB(r)bc galaxy with no sign
of a merger-built bulge. We do not understand how such galaxies form in a
{\Lambda}CDM universe.