Evolution of dust and molecular hydrogen in the Magellanic System
We investigate the evolution of the interstellar medium (ISM) in
self-consistent, chemodynamical simulations of the Magellanic Clouds (MCs)
during their recent (z<0.3) past. An explicit modelling of dust and molecular
hydrogen lifecycles enables the comparison of our models against the observed
properties of the ISM, including elemental depletion from the gas-phase.
Combining this model with a tidal-dominated paradigm for the formation for the
Magellanic Stream and Bridge, we reproduce the age-metallicity relations, long
gas depletion timescales, and presently observed dust and molecular hydrogen
masses of the MCs to within their respective uncertainties. We find that these
models' enrichment depends sensitively on the processing of dust within the ISM
and the dynamical influence of external tides/stellar bars. The ratio of
characteristic dust destruction timescales in our SMC and LMC models, a
governing parameter of our models' evolution, is consistent with estimates
based on observed supernova (SN) rates. Our reference MC models tend to exhibit
the disputed universal dust-to-metal ratio, which we argue stems from the
adoption of high SNe II condensation efficiencies. Our models are the first to
reproduce the one-tenth solar metallicity of the Stream/Leading Arm following
tidal stripping of the SMC; the hypothesis that the LMC contributes a
metal-rich filament to the Stream, as implied by recent kinematic and abundance
analyses, is also appraised in this study.