On the origin of the molecular outflows in IRAS 16293-2422
We present CO 3-2, SiO 8-7, C34S 7-6, and 878 mum dust continuum subarcsecond
angular resolution observations with the SMA toward IRAS 16293-2422 (I16293).
The C34S emission traces the 878 mum dust continuum well, and clearly shows a
smooth velocity gradient along the major axis of component I16293A. The CO
shows emission at moderate high velocities arising from two bipolar outflows,
which appear to be perpendicular with respect to each other. The high
sensitivity and higher angular resolution of these observations allows us to
pinpoint well the origin of these two outflows at the center of component
I16293A. Interestingly, the most compact outflow appears to point toward
I16293B. Our data show that the previously reported monopolar blueshifted CO
outflow associated with component I16293B seems to be part of the compact
outflow arising from component I16293A. In addition, the SiO emission is also
tracing this compact outflow: on one hand, the SiO emission appears to have a
jet-like morphology along the southern redshifted lobe; on the other hand, the
SiO emission associated with the blueshifted northern lobe traces a well
defined arc on the border of component I16293B facing I16293A. The blueshifted
CO lobe of the compact outflow splits into two lobes around the position of
this SiO arc. All these results lead us to propose that the compact outflow
from component I16293A is impacting on the circumstellar gas around component
I16293B, possibly being diverged as a consequence of the interaction.