Globular Clusters: DNA of Early-Type galaxies?
This paper explores if the mean properties of Early-Type Galaxies (ETG) can
be reconstructed from "genetic" information stored in their GCs (i.e., in their
chemical abundances, spatial distributions and ages). This approach implies
that the formation of each globular occurs in very massive stellar
environments, as suggested by some models that aim at explaining the presence
of multi-populations in these systems. The assumption that the relative number
of globular clusters to diffuse stellar mass depends exponentially on chemical
abundance, [Z/H], and the presence of two dominant GC sub-populations blue and
red, allows the mapping of low metallicity halos and of higher metallicity (and
more heterogeneous) bulges. In particular, the masses of the low-metallicity
halos seem to scale up with dark matter mass through a constant. We also find a
dependence of the globular cluster formation efficiency with the mean projected
stellar mass density of the galaxies within their effective radii. The analysis
is based on a selected sub-sample of galaxies observed within the ACS Virgo
Cluster Survey of the {\it Hubble Space Telescope}. These systems were grouped,
according to their absolute magnitudes, in order to define composite fiducial
galaxies and look for a quantitative connection with their (also composite)
globular clusters systems. The results strengthen the idea that globular
clusters are good quantitative tracers of both baryonic and dark matter in
ETGs.