Outflowing activity in the UCHII region G045.47+0.05
Aims. This work aims at investigating the molecular gas in the surroundings
of the ultra-compact HII region G045.47+0.05 looking for evidence of molecular
outflows. Methods. We carried out observations towards a region of 2 arcmin x 2
arcmin centered at RA=19h 14m 25.6s, dec.= 11deg 09m 27.6s (J2000) using the
Atacama Submillimeter Telescope Experiment (ASTE; Chile) in the 12CO J=3-2,
13CO J=3-2, HCO+ J=4-3 and CS J=7-6 lines with an angular resolution of 22
arcsec. We complement these observations with public infrared data. Results. We
characterize the physical parameters of the molecular clump where G045.47+0.0
is embedded. The detection of the CS J=7-6 line emission in the region reveals
that the ultra-compact HII region G045.47+0.0 has not completely disrupted the
dense gas where it was born. The HCO+ abundance observed towards G045.47+0.0
suggests the presence of molecular outflow activity in the region. From the
analysis of the 12CO J=3-2 transition we report the presence of bipolar
molecular outflows with a total mass of about 300 solar masses . We derive a
dynamical time (flow's age) of about 10^5 yr for the outflow gas, in agreement
with the presence of an ultra-compact HII region. We identify the source 2MASS
19142564+1109283 as the massive protostar candidate to drive the molecular
outflows. Based on the analysis of its spectral energy distribution we infer
that it is an early B-type star of about 15 solar masses. The results of this
work support the scenario where the formation of massive stars, at least up to
early B-type stars, is similar to that of low mass stars.