Star Formation and Young Population of the HII Complex Sh2-294
The Sh2-294 HII region ionized by a single B0V star features several infrared
excess sources, a photodissociation region, and also a group of reddened stars
at its border. The star formation scenario in the region seems to be quite
complex. In this paper, we present follow-up results of Sh2-294 HII region at
3.6, 4.5, 5.8, and 8.0 microns observed with the Spitzer Space Telescope
Infrared Array Camera (IRAC), coupled with H2 (2.12 microns) observation, to
characterize the young population of the region and to understand its star
formation history. We identified 36 young stellar object (YSO, Class I, Class
II and Class I/II) candidates using IRAC color-color diagrams. It is found that
Class I sources are preferentially located at the outskirts of the HII region
and associated with enhanced H2 emission; none of them are located near the
central cluster. Combining the optical to mid-infrared (MIR) photometry of the
YSO candidates and using the spectral energy distribution fitting models, we
constrained stellar parameters and the evolutionary status of 33 YSO
candidates. Most of them are interpreted by the model as low-mass (< 4 solar
masses) YSOs; however, we also detected a massive YSO (~9 solar masses) of
Class I nature, embedded in a cloud of visual extinction of ~24 mag. Present
analysis suggests that the Class I sources are indeed younger population of the
region relative to Class II sources (age ~ 4.5 x 10^6 yr). We suggest that the
majority of the Class I sources, including the massive YSOs, are
second-generation stars of the region whose formation is possibly induced by
the expansion of the HII region powered by a ~ 4 x 10^6 yr B0 main-sequence
star.