A dynamical transition from atomic to molecular intermediate-velocity
  clouds
Towards the high galactic latitude sky, the far-infrared (FIR) intensity is
tightly correlated to the total hydrogen column density which is made up of
atomic (HI) and molecular hydrogen (H$_{2})$. Above a certain column density
threshold, atomic hydrogen turns molecular. We analyse gas and dust properties
of intermediate-velocity clouds (IVCs) in the lower galactic halo to explore
their transition from the atomic to the molecular phase. Driven by
observations, we investigate the physical processes that transform a purely
atomic IVC into a molecular one. Data from the Effelsberg-Bonn HI-Survey
(EBHIS) are correlated to FIR wavebands of the Planck satellite and IRIS.
Modified black-body emission spectra are fitted to deduce dust optical depths
and grain temperatures. We remove the contribution of atomic hydrogen to the
FIR intensity to estimate molecular hydrogen column densities. Two IVCs show
different FIR properties, despite their similarity in HI, such as narrow
spectral lines and large column densities. One FIR bright IVC is associated
with H$_{2}$, confirmed by $^{12}$CO $(1\rightarrow0)$ emission; the other IVC
is FIR dim and shows no FIR excess, which indicates the absence of molecular
hydrogen. We propose that the FIR dim and bright IVCs probe the transition
between the atomic and molecular gas phase. Triggered by dynamical processes,
this transition happens during the descent of IVCs onto the galactic disk. The
most natural driver is ram pressure exerted onto the cloud by the increasing
halo density. Because of the enhanced pressure, the formation timescale of
H$_{2}$ is reduced, allowing the formation of large amounts of H$_{2}$ within a
few Myr.