De-Confusing blended field images using graphs and bayesian priors
We present a new technique for overcoming confusion noise in deep
far-infrared \Herschel space telescope images making use of prior information
from shorter $\lambda<2$\micron wavelengths. For the deepest images obtained by
\Herschels, the flux limit due to source confusion is about a factor of three
brighter than the flux limit due to instrumental noise and (smooth) sky
background. We have investigated the possibility of de-confusing simulated
\Herschel PACS-160\micron images by using strong Bayesian priors on the
positions and weak priors on the flux of sources. We find the blended sources
and group them together and simultaneously fit their fluxes. We derive the
posterior probability distribution function of fluxes subject to these priors
through Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC) sampling by fitting the image. Assuming
we can predict FIR flux of sources based on ultraviolet-optical part of their
SEDs to within an order of magnitude, the simulations show that we can obtain
reliable fluxes and uncertainties at least a factor of three fainter than the
confusion noise limit of $3\sigma_{c} $=2.7 mJy in our simulated PACS-160
image. This technique could in principle be used to mitigate the effects of
source confusion in any situation where one has prior information of positions
and plausible fluxes of blended sources. For \Herschel, application of this
technique will improve our ability to constrain the dust content in normal
galaxies at high redshift.