Herschel observations of interstellar chloronium
Using the Herschel Space Observatory's Heterodyne Instrument for the
Far-Infrared (HIFI), we have observed para-chloronium (H2Cl+) toward six
sources in the Galaxy. We detected interstellar chloronium absorption in
foreground molecular clouds along the sight-lines to the bright submillimeter
continuum sources Sgr A (+50 km/s cloud) and W31C. Both the para-H2-35Cl+ and
para-H2-37Cl+ isotopologues were detected, through observations of their
1(11)-0(00) transitions at rest frequencies of 485.42 and 484.23 GHz,
respectively. For an assumed ortho-to-para ratio of 3, the observed optical
depths imply that chloronium accounts for ~ 4 - 12% of chlorine nuclei in the
gas phase. We detected interstellar chloronium emission from two sources in the
Orion Molecular Cloud 1: the Orion Bar photodissociation region and the Orion
South condensation. For an assumed ortho-to-para ratio of 3 for chloronium, the
observed emission line fluxes imply total beam-averaged column densities of ~
2.0E+13 cm-2 and ~ 1.2E+13 cm-2, respectively, for chloronium in these two
sources. We obtained upper limits on the para-H2-35Cl+ line strengths toward H2
Peak 1 in the Orion Molecular cloud and toward the massive young star AFGL
2591. The chloronium abundances inferred in this study are typically at least a
factor ~10 larger than the predictions of steady-state theoretical models for
the chemistry of interstellar molecules containing chlorine. Several
explanations for this discrepancy were investigated, but none has proven
satisfactory, and thus the large observed abundances of chloronium remain
puzzling.