Integral field spectroscopy of selected areas of the Bright Bar and
  Orion-S cloud in the Orion Nebula
We present integral field spectroscopy of two selected zones in the Orion
Nebula obtained with the Potsdam Multi-Aperture Spectrophotometer (PMAS),
covering the optical spectral range from 3500 to 7200 A and with a spatial
resolution of 1". The observed zones are located on the prominent Bright Bar
and on the brightest area at the northeast of the Orion South cloud, both
containing remarkable ionization fronts. We obtain maps of emission line fluxes
and ratios, electron density and temperatures, and chemical abundances. We
study the ionization structure and morphology of both fields, which ionization
fronts show different inclination angles with respect to the plane of the sky.
We find that the maps of electron density, O+/H+ and O/H ratios show a rather
similar structure. We interpret this as produced by the strong dependence on
density of the [OII] lines used to derive the O+ abundance, and that our
nominal values of electron density-derived from the [SII] line ratio-may be
slightly higher than the appropriate value for the O+ zone. We measure the
faint recombination lines of OII in the field at the northeast of the Orion
South cloud allowing us to explore the so-called abundance discrepancy problem.
We find a rather constant abundance discrepancy across the field and a mean
value similar to that determined in other areas of the Orion Nebula, indicating
that the particular physical conditions of this ionization front do not
contribute to this discrepancy.