Fragmentation in the Massive Star-Forming Region IRAS 19410+2336
The Core Mass Functions (CMFs) of low-mass star-forming regions are found to
resemble the shape of the Initial Mass Function (IMF). A similar result is
observed for the dust clumps in high-mass star forming regions, although at
spatial scales of clusters that do not resolve the substructure found in them.
The region IRAS 19410+2336 is one exception, having been observed at spatial
scales on the order of ~2500AU, resolving the clump substructure into
individual cores.
  We mapped that region with the PdBI in the 1.4mm and 3mm continuum and
several transitions of H2CO and CH3CN. The H2CO transitions were also observed
with the IRAM 30m Telescope. We detected 26 continuum sources at 1.4mm with a
spatial resolution down to ~2200 AU, distributed in two protoclusters. With the
lines emission we derived the temperature structure of the region, ranging from
35 to 90K. With them we calculated the core masses of the detected sources,
ranging from ~0.7 to ~8 M_sun. These masses were strongly (~90%) affected by
the interferometer spatial filtering. Considering only the detected dense cores
we derived a CMF with a power-law index b=-2.3+-0.2. We resolve the Jeans
length of the protoclusters by one order of magnitude, and only find little
velocity dispersion between the different subsources.
  Since we cannot unambiguously differentiate protostellar and prestellar
cores, the derived CMF is not prestellar. Also, because of the large missing
flux, we cannot establish a firm link between the CMF and the IMF. This implies
that future high-mass CMF studies will need to complement the interferometer
continuum data with the short spacing data, a task suitable for ALMA. We note
that the method of extracting temperatures using H2CO lines becomes less
applicable when reaching the dense core scales of the interferometric
observations because most of the H2CO appears to originate in the envelope
structure.