Chemical compositions of six metal-poor stars in the ultra-faint dwarf
  spheroidal galaxy Bo√∂tes I
Ultra-faint dwarf galaxies recently discovered around the Milky Way (MW)
contain extremely metal-poor stars, and might represent the building blocks of
low-metallicity components of the MW. Among them, the Bo\"otes I dwarf
spheroidal galaxy is of particular interest because of its exclusively old
stellar population. We determine chemical compositions of six red giant stars
in Bo\"otes I, based on the high-resolution spectra obtained with the High
Dispersion Spectrograph mounted on the Subaru Telescope. Abundances of 12
elements, including C, Na, alpha, Fe-peak, and neutron capture elements, were
determined for the sample stars. The abundance results were compared to those
in field MW halo stars previously obtained using an abundance analysis
technique similar to the present study. We confirm the low metallicity of
Boo-094 ([Fe/H]=-3.4). Except for this star, the abundance ratios ([X/Fe]) of
elements lighter than zinc are generally homogeneous with small scatter around
the mean values in the metallicities spanned by the other five stars
(-2.7<[Fe/H]<-1.8). Specifically, all of the sample stars with [Fe/H]>-2.7 show
no significant enhancement of carbon. The [Mg/Fe] and [Ca/Fe] ratios are almost
constant with a modest decreasing trend with increasing [Fe/H] and are slightly
lower than the field halo stars. The [Sr/Fe] and [Sr/Ba] ratios also tend to be
lower in the Bo\"otes I stars than in the halo stars. Our results of small
scatter in the [X/Fe] ratios for elements lighter than zinc suggest that these
abundances were homogeneous among the ejecta of prior generation(s) of stars in
this galaxy.