An Evolutionary Model for Collapsing Molecular Clouds and Their Star
  Formation Activity
We present an idealized, semi-empirical model for the evolution of
gravitationally contracting molecular clouds (MCs) and their star formation
rate (SFR) and efficiency (SFE). The model assumes that the instantaneous SFR
is given by the mass above a certain density threshold divided by its free-fall
time. The instantaneous number of massive stars is computed assuming a Kroupa
IMF. These stars feed back on the cloud through ionizing radiation, eroding it.
The main controlling parameter of the evolution turns out to be the maximum
cloud mass, $\Mmax$. This allows us to compare various properties of the model
clouds against their observational counterparts. A giant molecular cloud (GMC)
model ($\Mmax \sim 10^5 \Msun$) adheres very well to the evolutionary scenario
recently inferred by Kawamura et al. (2009) for GMCs in the Large Magellanic
Cloud. A model cloud with $\Mmax \approx 2000 \Msun$ evolves in the
Kennicutt-Schmidt diagram first passing through the locus of typical low-
to-intermediate mass star-forming clouds, and then moving towards the locus of
high-mass star-forming ones over the course of $\sim 10$ Myr. Also, the stellar
age histograms for this cloud a few Myr before its destruction agree very well
with those observed in the $\rho$-Oph stellar association, whose parent cloud
has a similar mass, and imply that the SFR of the clouds increases with time.
Our model thus agrees well with various observed properties of star-forming
MCs, suggesting that the scenario of gravitationally collapsing MCs, with their
SFR regulated by stellar feedback, is entirely feasible and in agreement with
key observed properties of molecular clouds.