Herschel / HIFI observations of CO, H2O and NH3 in Mon R2
Context. Mon R2 is the only ultracompact HII region (UCHII) where the
associated photon-dominated region (PDR) can be resolved with Herschel. Due to
its brightness and proximity, it is the best source to investigate the
chemistry and physics of highly UV-irradiated PDRs. Aims. Our goal is to
estimate the abundance of H2O and NH3 in this region and investigate their
origin. Methods. We present new observations obtained with HIFI and the
IRAM-30m telescope. Using a large velocity gradient approach, we model the line
intensities and derive an average abundance of H2O and NH3 across the region.
Finally, we model the line profiles with a non-local radiative transfer model
and compare these results with the abundance predicted by the Meudon PDR code.
Results. The variations of the line profiles and intensities indicate complex
geometrical and kinematical patterns. The H2O lines present a strong absorption
at the ambient velocity and emission in high velocity wings towards the HII
region. The spatial distribution of the o-H2^18O line shows that the its
emission arises in the PDR surrounding the HII region. By modeling the o-H2^18O
emission we derive a mean abundance of o-H2O of ~10^-8 relative to H2. The
ortho-H2O abundance is however larger, ~1x10^-7, in the high velocity wings.
Possible explanations for this larger abundance include an expanding hot PDR
and/or an outflow. Ammonia seems to be present only in the envelope with an
average abundance of ~2x10^-9 relative to H2. Conclusions. The Meudon PDR code
can account for the measured water abundance in the high velocity gas as long
as we assume that it originates from a <1 mag hot expanding layer of the PDR,
i.e. that the outflow has only a minor contribution to this emission. To
explain the abundances in the rest of the cloud the molecular freeze out and
grain surface chemistry would need to be included.