The Herschel Fornax Cluster Survey II: FIR properties of
  optically-selected Fornax cluster galaxies
The $Herschel$ Fornax Cluster Survey (HeFoCS) is a deep, far-infrared (FIR)
survey of the Fornax cluster. The survey is in 5 $Herschel$ bands (100 - 500
$\mu$m) and covers an area of 16 deg$^2$ centred on NGC1399. This paper
presents photometry, detection rates, dust masses and temperatures using an
optically selected sample from the Fornax Cluster Catalogue (FCC). Our results
are compared with those previously obtained using data from the $Herschel$
Virgo Cluster Survey (HeViCS). In Fornax, we detect 30 of the 237 (13%)
optically selected galaxies in at least one $Herschel$ band. The global
detection rates are significantly lower than Virgo, reflecting the
morphological make up of each cluster - Fornax has a lower fraction of
late-type galaxies. For galaxies detected in at least 3 bands we fit a modified
blackbody with a $\beta = 2$ emissivity. Detected early-type galaxies (E/S0)
have a mean dust mass, temperature, and dust-to-stars ratio of
$\log_{10}(<M_{dust}>/\mathrm{M_{\odot}}) = 5.82 \pm 0.20$, $<T_{dust}> = 20.82
\pm 1.77$K, and $\log_{10}(M_{dust}/M_{stars}) = -3.87 \pm 0.28$, respectively.
Late-type galaxies (Sa to Sd) have a mean dust mass, temperature, and
dust-to-stars ratio of $\log_{10}(<M_{dust}>/\mathrm{M_{\odot}}) = 6.54 \pm
0.19$, $<T_{dust}> = 17.47 \pm 0.97$K, and $\log_{10}(M_{dust}/M_{stars}) =
-2.93 \pm 0.09$, respectively. The different cluster environments seem to have
had little effect on the FIR properties of the galaxies and so we conclude that
any environment dependent evolution, has taken place before the cluster was
assembled.