X-ray embedded stars as driving sources of outflow-driven turbulence in
  OMC1-S
Outflows arising from very young stars affect their surroundings and
influence the star formation in the parental core. Multiple molecular outflows
and Herbig-Haro (HH) objects have been observed in Orion, many of them
originating from the embedded massive star-forming region known as OMC1-S. The
detection of the outflow driving sources is commonly difficult, because they
are still hidden behind large extinction, preventing their direct observation
at optical and even near and mid-IR wavelengths. With the aim of improving the
identification of the driving sources of the multiple outflows detected in
OMC1-S, we used the catalog provided by deep X-ray observations, which have
unveiled the very embedded population of pre-main sequence stars. We compared
the position of stars observed by the Chandra Orion Ultra Deep project (COUP)
in OMC1-S with the morphology of the molecular outflows and the directions of
measured proper motions of HH optical objects. We find that 6 out of 7
molecular outflows reported in OMC1-S (detection rate of 86 %) have an
extincted X-ray COUP star located at the expected position of the driving
source. In several cases, X-rays detected the possible driving sources for the
first time. This clustered embedded population revealed by Chandra is very
young, with an estimated average age of few 10^{5} yr. It is also likely
responsible for the multiple HH objects, which are the optical correspondence
of flows arising from the cloud. We show that the molecular outflows driven by
the members of the OMC1-S cluster can account for the observed turbulence at
core-scales and regulate the star formation efficiency. We discuss the effects
of outflow feedback in the formation of massive stars, concluding that the
injected turbulence in OMC1-S is compatible with a competitive accretion
scenario.