The impact of AGN on their host galaxies
In these proceedings I briefly: (1) review the impact (or "feedback") that
active galactic nuclei (AGN) are predicted to have on their host galaxies and
larger scale environment, (2) review the observational evidence for or against
these predictions and (3) present new results on ionised outflows in AGN. The
observational support for the "maintenance mode" of feedback is strong (caveat
the details); AGN at the centre of massive halos appear to be regulating the
cooling of hot gas, which could in turn control the levels of future star
formation (SF) and black hole growth. In contrast, direct observational support
for more rapid forms of feedback, which dramatically impact on SF (i.e., the
"quasar mode"), remains elusive. From a systematic study of the spectra of
approx. 24000 z<0.4 AGN we find that extreme ionised gas kinematics are common,
and are most prevalent in radio bright AGN (L[1.4GHz] >10^23 W/Hz). Follow-up
IFU observations have shown that these extreme gas kinematics are extended over
kilo-parsec scales. However, the co-existence of high-levels of SF, luminous
AGN activity and radio jets raises interesting questions on the primary drivers
and impact of these outflows. Galaxy-wide, high-mass outflows are being
observed in an increasing number of AGN and are a plausible mechanism for the
depletion of gas; however, there is still much work to be done to determine the
physical processes that drive these outflows and to measure the level of impact
that they have on their host galaxies.