Should I Stay or Should I Go: Stellar Wind Retention and Expulsion in
  Massive Star Clusters
Mass and energy injection throughout the lifetime of a star cluster
contributes to the gas reservoir available for subsequent episodes of star
formation and the feedback energy budget responsible for ejecting material from
the cluster. In addition, mass processed in stellar interiors and ejected as
winds has the potential to augment the abundance ratios of currently forming
stars, or stars which form at a later time from a retained gas reservoir. Here
we present hydrodynamical simulations that explore a wide range of cluster
masses, compactnesses, metallicities and stellar population age combinations in
order to determine the range of parameter space conducive to stellar wind
retention or wind powered gas expulsion in star clusters. We discuss the
effects of the stellar wind prescription on retention and expulsion
effectiveness, using MESA stellar evolutionary models as a test bed for
exploring how the amounts of wind retention/expulsion depend upon the amount of
mixing between the winds from stars of different masses and ages. We conclude
by summarizing some implications for gas retention and expulsion in a variety
of compact ($\sigma_v \gtrsim 20 \, {\rm km s^{-1}}$) star clusters including
young massive star clusters ($10^5 \lesssim M/M_\odot \lesssim 10^7$, $age
\lesssim 500$~Myrs), intermediate age clusters ($10^5 \lesssim M/M_\odot
\lesssim 10^7$, $age \approx 1-4$~Gyrs), and globular clusters ($10^5 \lesssim
M/M_\odot \lesssim 10^7$, $age \gtrsim 10$~Gyrs).