Multiple populations in Omega Centauri: a cluster analysis of
  spectroscopic data
Omega Cen is composed of several stellar populations. Their history might
allow us to reconstruct the evolution of this complex object. We performed a
statistical cluster analysis on the large data set provided by Johnson and
Pilachowski (2010). Stars in Omega Cen divide into three main groups. The
metal-poor group includes about a third of the total. It shows a moderate O-Na
anticorrelation, and similarly to other clusters, the O-poor second generation
stars are more centrally concentrated than the O-rich first generation ones.
This whole population is La-poor, with a pattern of abundances for n-capture
elements which is very close to a scaled r-process one. The metal-intermediate
group includes the majority of the cluster stars. This is a much more complex
population, with an internal spread in the abundances of most elements. It
shows an extreme O-Na anticorrelation, with a very numerous population of
extremely O-poor and He-rich second generation stars. This second generation is
very centrally concentrated. This whole population is La-rich, with a pattern
of the abundances of n-capture elements that shows a strong contribution by the
s-process. The spread in metallicity within this metal-intermediate population
is not very large, and we might attribute it either to non uniformities of an
originally very extended star forming region, or to some ability to retain a
fraction of the ejecta of the core collapse SNe that exploded first, or both.
As previously noticed, the metal-rich group has an Na-O correlation, rather
than anticorrelation. There is evidence for the contribution of both massive
stars ending their life as core-collapse SNe, and intermediate/low mass stars,
producing the s-capture elements. Kinematics of this population suggests that
it formed within the cluster rather than being accreted.