Stellar Population gradients in galaxy discs from the CALIFA survey
While studies of gas-phase metallicity gradients in disc galaxies are common,
very little has been done in the acquisition of stellar abundance gradients in
the same regions. We present here a comparative study of the stellar
metallicity and age distributions in a sample of 62 nearly face-on, spiral
galaxies with and without bars, using data from the CALIFA survey. We measure
the slopes of the gradients and study their relation with other properties of
the galaxies. We find that the mean stellar age and metallicity gradients in
the disc are shallow and negative. Furthermore, when normalized to the
effective radius of the disc, the slope of the stellar population gradients
does not correlate with the mass or with the morphological type of the
galaxies. Contrary to this, the values of both age and metallicity at $\sim$2.5
scale-lengths correlate with the central velocity dispersion in a similar
manner to the central values of the bulges, although bulges show, on average,
older ages and higher metallicities than the discs. One of the goals of the
present paper is to test the theoretical prediction that non-linear coupling
between the bar and the spiral arms is an efficient mechanism for producing
radial migrations across significant distances within discs. The process of
radial migration should flatten the stellar metallicity gradient with time and,
therefore, we would expect flatter stellar metallicity gradients in barred
galaxies. However, we do not find any difference in the metallicity or age
gradients in galaxies with without bars. We discuss possible scenarios that can
lead to this absence of difference.