A self-consistent model of Galactic stellar and dust infrared emission
  and the abundance of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons
We present a self-consistent three-dimensional Monte-Carlo radiative transfer
model of the stellar and dust emission in the Milky-Way, and have computed
synthetic observations of the 3.6 to 100 microns emission in the Galactic
mid-plane. In order to compare the model to observations, we use the GLIMPSE,
MIPSGAL, and IRAS surveys to construct total emission spectra, as well as
longitude and latitude profiles for the emission. The distribution of stars and
dust is taken from the SKY model, and the dust emissivities includes an
approximation of the emission from polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in addition
to thermal emission. The model emission is in broad agreement with the
observations, but a few modifications are needed to obtain a good fit. Firstly,
by adjusting the model to include two major and two minor spiral arms rather
than four equal spiral arms, the fit to the longitude profiles for |l|>30
degrees can be improved. Secondly, introducing a deficit in the dust
distribution in the inner Galaxy results in a better fit to the shape of the
IRAS longitude profiles at 60 and 100 microns. With these modifications, the
model fits the observed profiles well, although it systematically
under-estimates the 5.8 and 8.0 microns fluxes. One way to resolve this
discrepancy is to increase the abundance of PAH molecules by 50% compared to
the original model, although we note that changes to the dust distribution or
radiation field may provide alternative solutions. Finally, we use the model to
quantify which stellar populations contribute the most to the heating of
different dust types, and which stellar populations and dust types contribute
the most to the emission at different wavelengths.