Dwarf spheroidal satellites of the Milky Way from dark matter free tidal
  dwarf galaxy progenitors: maps of orbits
The long term time evolution of tidal dwarf satellite galaxies with two
different initial densities orbiting a host galaxy that resembles the Milky Way
has been studied using a large set of Newtonian N-Body simulations. From the
simulations two maps of the orbital conditions that lead to quasi-equilibrium
objects were constructed. It has been found that several orbits of the
satellites allow for the existence, for about 1 Gyr or more, of
out-of-equilibrium bodies with high apparent mass-to-light ratios. Within this
framework the satellites in the quasi-stable phase reproduce the observed
satellite properties for about 16% of the orbit for high density progenitors,
and for about 66% for progenitors with lower densities An additional simulation
for a single satellite with initial mass of 10^7 Msun and Plummer radius of
0.15 kpc leads to remnants in the quasi- equilibrium phase that simultaneously
reproduce remarkably well the observational quantities of the UFDGs of the
Milky Way. This satellite in the quasi-stable phase reproduces the observed
satellite properties for about 42% of the orbit. The results suggest that a
fraction of the observed satellites could plausibly be galaxies without dark
matter that have true M/L ratios much lower than those measured. The inflated
M/L ratios arise because they are observed at the right time, along the right
orbit and during the quasi-equilibrium phase of their evolution. This is a
viable explanation for the high M/L ratios observed in all satellites as long
as the satellites are preferentially on certain orbits and are observed at
certain times. This could arise within the TDG scenario if all satellites are
created at the same time along a few specific orbits that are particularly
susceptible to the quasi-equilibrium phase.