Supernovae Driven Turbulence In The Interstellar Medium
I model the multi-phase interstellar medium (ISM) randomly heated and shocked
by supernovae, with gravity, differential rotation and other parameters we
understand to be typical of the solar neighbourhood. The simulations are 3D
extending horizontally 1 x 1 kpc squared and vertically 2 kpc, symmetric about
the galactic mid-plane. They routinely span gas number densities 1/10000 to 100
per cubic cm, temperatures 100 to 100 MK, speeds up to 10000 km/s and Mach
number up to 25. Radiative cooling is applied from two widely adopted
parameterizations, and compared directly to assess the sensitivity of the
results to cooling. There is strong evidence to describe the ISM as comprising
well defined cold, warm and hot regions, which are statistically close to
thermal and total pressure equilibrium. This result is not sensitive to the
choice of parameters considered here. The distribution of the gas density
within each can be robustly modelled as lognormal. Appropriate distinction is
required between the properties of the gases in the supernova active mid-plane
and the more homogeneous phases outside this region. The connection between the
fractional volume of a phase and its various proxies is clarified. An exact
relation is then derived between the fractional volume and the filling factors
defined in terms of the volume and probabilistic averages. These results are
discussed in both observational and computational contexts. The correlation
scale of the random flows is calculated from the velocity autocorrelation
function; it is of order 100 pc and tends to grow with distance from the
mid-plane. The origin and structure of the magnetic fields in the ISM is also
investigated in non-ideal MHD simulations. A seed magnetic field, with volume
average of roughly 4 nG, grows exponentially to reach a statistically steady
state within 1.6 Gyr.