Multiwavelength Study of NGC 281 Region
We present a multiwavelength study of the NGC 281 complex which contains the
young cluster IC 1590 at the center, using deep wide-field optical UBVI_c
photometry, slitless spectroscopy along with archival data sets in the
near-infrared (NIR) and X-ray. The extent of IC 1590 is estimated to be ~6.5
pc. The cluster region shows a relatively small amount of differential
reddening. The majority of the identified young stellar objects (YSOs) are low
mass PMS stars having age <1-2 Myr and mass 0.5-3.5 M_\odot. The slope (\Gamma)
of the mass function for IC 1590, in the mass range 2 < M/M_\odot \le 54, is
found to be -1.11+-0.15. The slope of the K-band luminosity function
(0.37+-0.07) is similar to the average value (~0.4) reported for young
clusters. The distribution of gas and dust obtained from the IRAS, CO and radio
maps indicates clumpy structures around the central cluster. The radial
distribution of the young stellar objects, their ages, \Delta(H-K) NIR-excess,
and the fraction of classical T Tauri stars suggest triggered star formation at
the periphery of the cluster region. However, deeper optical, NIR and MIR
observations are needed to have a conclusive view of star formation scenario in
the region. The properties of the Class 0/I and Class II sources detected by
using the Spitzer mid-infrared observations indicate that a majority of the
Class II sources are X-ray emitting stars, whereas X-ray emission is absent
from the Class 0/I sources. The spatial distribution of Class 0/I and Class II
sources reveals the presence of three sub-clusters in the NGC 281 West region.