Deuteration around the ultracompact HII region Mon R2
The massive star-forming region Mon R2 hosts the closest ultra-compact HII
region that can be spatially resolved with current single-dish telescopes. We
used the IRAM-30m telescope to carry out an unbiased spectral survey toward two
important positions (namely IF and MP2), in order to studying the chemistry of
deuterated molecules toward Mon R2. We found a rich chemistry of deuterated
species at both positions, with detections of C2D, DCN, DNC, DCO+, D2CO, HDCO,
NH2D, and N2D+ and their corresponding hydrogenated species and isotopologs.
Our high spectral resolution observations allowed us to resolve three velocity
components: the component at 10 km/s is detected at both positions and seems
associated with the layer most exposed to the UV radiation from IRS 1; the
component at 12 km/s is found toward the IF position and seems related to the
molecular gas; finally, a component at 8.5 km/s is only detected toward the MP2
position, most likely related to a low-UV irradiated PDR. We derived the column
density of all the species, and determined the deuterium fractions (Dfrac). The
values of Dfrac are around 0.01 for all the observed species, except for HCO+
and N2H+ which have values 10 times lower. The values found in Mon R2 are well
explained with pseudo-time-dependent gas-phase model in which deuteration
occurs mainly via ion-molecule reactions with H2D+, CH2D+ and C2HD+. Finally,
the [H13CN]/[HN13C] ratio is very high (~11) for the 10 km/s component, which
also agree with our model predictions for an age of ~0.01-0.1 Myr. The
deuterium chemistry is a good tool for studying star-forming regions. The
low-mass star-forming regions seem well characterized with Dfrac(N2H+) or
Dfrac(HCO+), but it is required a complete chemical modeling to date massive
star-forming regions, because the higher gas temperature together with the
rapid evolution of massive protostars.