A 3D view of the outflow in the Orion Molecular Cloud 1 (OMC-1)
The fast outflow emerging from a region associated with massive star
formation in the Orion Molecular Cloud 1 (OMC-1), located behind the Orion
Nebula, appears to have been set in motion by an explosive event. Here we study
the structure and dynamics of outflows in OMC-1. We combine radial velocity and
proper motion data for near-IR emission of molecular hydrogen to obtain the
first 3-dimensional (3D) structure of the OMC-1 outflow. Our work illustrates a
new diagnostic tool for studies of star formation that will be exploited in the
near future with the advent of high spatial resolution spectro-imaging in
particular with data from the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA). We use
published radial and proper motion velocities obtained from the shock-excited
vibrational emission in the H2 v=1-0 S(1) line at 2.122 $\mu$m obtained with
the GriF instrument on the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope, the Apache Point
Observatory, the Anglo-Australian Observatory and the Subaru Telescope. These
data give the 3D velocity of ejecta yielding a 3D reconstruction of the
outflows. This allows one to view the material from different vantage points in
space giving considerable insight into the geometry. Our analysis indicates
that the ejection occurred <720 years ago from a distorted ring-like structure
of ~15" (6000 AU) in diameter centered on the proposed point of close encounter
of the stars BN, source I and maybe also source n. We propose a simple model
involving curvature of shock trajectories in magnetic fields through which the
origin of the explosion and the centre defined by extrapolated proper motions
of BN, I and n may be brought into spatial coincidence.