The role of low-mass star clusters in massive star formation. The Orion
  Case
To distinguish between the different theories proposed to explain massive
star formation, it is crucial to establish the distribution, the extinction,
and the density of low-mass stars in massive star-forming regions. We analyze
deep X-ray observations of the Orion massive star-forming region using the
Chandra Orion Ultradeep Project (COUP) catalog. We studied the stellar
distribution as a function of extinction, with cells of 0.03 pc x 0.03 pc, the
typical size of protostellar cores. We derived stellar density maps and
calculated cluster stellar densities. We found that low-mass stars cluster
toward the three massive star-forming regions: the Trapezium Cluster (TC), the
Orion Hot Core (OHC), and OMC1-S. We derived low-mass stellar densities of
10^{5} stars pc^{-3} in the TC and OMC1-S, and of 10^{6} stars pc^{-3} in the
OHC. The close association between the low-mass star clusters with massive star
cradles supports the role of these clusters in the formation of massive stars.
The X-ray observations show for the first time in the TC that low-mass stars
with intermediate extinction are clustered toward the position of the most
massive star, which is surrounded by a ring of non-extincted low-mass stars.
This 'envelope-core' structure is also supported by infrared and optical
observations. Our analysis suggests that at least two basic ingredients are
needed in massive star formation: the presence of dense gas and a cluster of
low-mass stars. The scenario that better explains our findings assumes high
fragmentation in the parental core, accretion at subcore scales that forms a
low-mass stellar cluster, and subsequent competitive accretion. Finally,
although coalescence does not seem a common mechanism for building up massive
stars, we show that a single stellar merger may have occurred in the evolution
of the OHC cluster, favored by the presence of disks, binaries, and gas
accretion.