Thick disk kinematics from RAVE and the solar motion
Radial velocity surveys such as the Radial Velocity Experiment (RAVE) provide
us with measurements of hundreds of thousands of nearby stars most of which
belong to the Galactic thin, thick disk or halo. Ideally, to study the Galactic
disks (both thin and thick) one should make use of the multi-dimensional
phase-space and the whole pattern of chemical abundances of their stellar
populations. In this paper, with the aid of the RAVE Survey, we study the thin
and thick disks of the Milky Way, focusing on the latter. We present a
technique to disentangle the stellar content of the two disks based on the
kinematics and other stellar parameters such as the surface gravity of the
stars. Using the Padova Galaxy Model, we checked the ability of our method to
correctly isolate the thick disk component from the Galaxy mixture of stellar
populations. We introduce selection criteria in order to clean the observed
radial velocities from the Galactic differential rotation and to take into
account the partial sky coverage of RAVE. We developed a numerical technique to
statistically disentangle thin and thick disks from their mixture. We deduce
the components of the solar motion relative to the Local Standard of Rest (LSR)
in the radial and vertical direction, the rotational lag of the thick disk
component relative to the LSR, and the square root of the absolute value of the
velocity dispersion tensor for the thick disk alone. The analysis of the thin
disk is presented in another paper. We find good agreement with previous
independent parameter determinations. In our analysis we used photometrically
determined distances. In the Appendix we show that similar values can be found
for the thick disk alone as derived in the main sections of our paper even
without the knowledge of photometric distances.