Chemical evolution of galaxies with radiation-driven dust wind
We discuss how the removal of interstellar dust by radiation pressure of
stars influences the chemical evolution of galaxies by using a new one-zone
chemical evolution models with dust wind. The removal efficiency of an element
(e.g., Fe, Mg, and Ca) through radiation-driven dust wind in a galaxy is
assumed to depend both on the dust depletion level of the element in
interstellar medium and the total luminosity of the galaxy in the new model. We
particularly focus on the time evolution of [alpha/Fe] and its dependence on
model parameters for dust wind in this study. The principal results are as
follows. The time evolution of [Ca/Fe] is significantly different between
models with and without dust wind in the sense that [Ca/Fe] can be
systematically lower in the models with dust wind. The time evolution of
[Mg/Fe], on the other hand, can not be so different between the models with and
without dust wind owing to the lower level of dust depletion for Mg. As a
result of this, [Mg/Ca] can be systematically higher in the models with dust
wind. We compare these results with the observed elemental features of stars in
the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), because a growing number of observational
studies on [alpha/Fe] for the LMC have been recently accumulated for a detailed
comparison. Based on the present new results, we also discuss the origins of
[alpha/Fe] in the Fornax dwarf galaxy and elliptical galaxies in the context of
radiation-driven dust wind.