Quantitative chemical tagging, stellar ages and the chemo-dynamical
  evolution of the Galactic disc
The early science results from the new generation of high-resolution stellar
spectroscopic surveys, such as GALAH and the Gaia-ESO survey, will represent
major milestones in the quest to chemically tag the Galaxy. Yet this technique
to reconstruct dispersed coeval stellar groups has remained largely untested
until recently. We build on previous work that developed an empirical chemical
tagging probability function, which describes the likelihood that two field
stars are conatal, that is, they were formed in the same cluster environment.
In this work we perform the first ever blind chemical tagging experiment, i.e.,
tagging stars with no known or otherwise discernable associations, on a sample
of 714 disc field stars with a number of high quality high resolution
homogeneous metal abundance measurements. We present evidence that chemical
tagging of field stars does identify coeval groups of stars, yet these groups
may not represent distinct formation sites, e.g. as in dissolved open clusters,
as previously thought. Our results point to several important conclusions,
among them that group finding will be limited strictly to chemical abundance
space, e.g. stellar ages, kinematics, colors, temperature and surface gravity
do not enhance the detectability of groups. We also demonstrate that in
addition to its role in probing the chemical enrichment and kinematic history
of the Galactic disc, chemical tagging represents a powerful new stellar age
determination technique.