The star cluster formation history of the LMC
The Large Magellanic Cloud is one of the nearest galaxies to us and is one of
only few galaxies where the star formation history can be determined from
studying resolved stellar populations. We have compiled a new catalogue of
ages, luminosities and masses of LMC star clusters and used it to determine the
age distribution and dissolution rate of LMC star clusters. We find that the
frequency of massive clusters with masses M>5000 Msun is almost constant
between 10 and 200 Myr, showing that the influence of residual gas expulsion is
limited to the first 10 Myr of cluster evolution or clusters less massive than
5000 Msun. Comparing the cluster frequency in that interval with the absolute
star formation rate, we find that about 15% of all stars in the LMC were formed
in long-lived star clusters that survive for more than 10 Myr. We also find
that the mass function of LMC clusters younger than 1 Gyr can be fitted by a
power-law mass function with slope \alpha=-2.3, while older clusters follow a
significantly shallower slope and interpret this is a sign of the ongoing
dissolution of low-mass clusters. Our data shows that for ages older than 200
Myr, about 90% of all clusters are lost per dex of lifetime. The implied
cluster dissolution rate is significantly faster than that based on analytic
estimates and N-body simulations. Our cluster age data finally shows evidence
for a burst in cluster formation about 1 Gyr ago, but little evidence for
bursts at other ages.