The Small-Scale Physical Structure and Fragmentation Difference of Two
  Embedded Intermediate Mass Protostars in Orion
Intermediate mass protostars, the bridge between the very common solar-like
protostars and the more massive, but rarer, O and B stars, can only be studied
at high physical spatial resolutions in a handful of clouds. In this paper we
present and analyze the continuum results from an observing campaign at the
Submillimeter Array targeting two well-studied intermediate mass protostars in
Orion, NGC 2071 and L1641 S3 MMS 1. The extended SMA (eSMA) probes structure at
angular resolutions up to 0.2", revealing protostellar disks on scales of 200
AU. Continuum flux measurements on these scales indicate that a significant
amount of mass, a few tens of M{\odot}, are present. Envelope, stellar, and
disk masses are derived using both compact, extended and eSMA configurations
and compared against SED-fitting models. We hypothesize that fragmentation into
three components occurred within NGC 2071 at an early time, when the envelopes
were less than 10% of their current masses, e.g. < 0.5 M{\odot}. No
fragmentation occurred for L1641 S3 MMS 1. For NGC 2071 evidence is given that
the bulk of the envelope material currently around each source was accreted
after the initial fragmentation. In addition, about 30% of the total core mass
is not yet associated to one of the three sources. A global accretion model is
favored and a potential accretion history of NGC 2071 is presented. It is shown
that the relatively low level of fragmentation in NGC 2071 was stifled compared
to the expected fragmentation from a Jean's argument.