The Tidal Tails of 47 Tucanae
The Galactic globular cluster 47 Tucanae (47 Tuc) shows a rare increase in
its velocity dispersion profile at large radii, indicative of energetic, yet
bound, stars at large radii dominating the velocity dispersion and,
potentially, of ongoing evaporation. Escaping stars will form tidal tails, as
seen with several Galactic globular clusters, however, the tidal tails of 47
Tuc are yet to be uncovered. We model these tails of 47 Tuc using the most
accurate input data available, with the specific aim of determining their
locations, as well as the densities of the epicyclic overdensities within the
tails. The overdensities from our models show an increase of 3-4% above the
Galactic background and, therefore, should be easily detectable using matched
filtering techniques. We find that the most influential parameter with regard
to both the locations and densities of the epicyclic overdensities is the
Heliocentric distance to the cluster. Hence, uncovering these tidal features
observationally will contribute greatly to the ongoing problem of determining
the distance to 47 Tuc, tightly constraining the distance of the cluster
independent of other methods. Using our streakline method for determining the
locations of the tidal tails and their overdensities, we show how, in
principle, the shape and extent of the tidal tails of any Galactic globular
cluster can be determined without resorting to computationally expensive N-body
simulations.