Synthetic X-ray and radio maps for two different models of Stephan's
  Quintet
We present simulations of the compact galaxy group Stephan's Quintet (SQ)
including magnetic fields, performed with the N-body/smoothed particle
hydrodynamics (SPH) code \textsc{Gadget}. The simulations include radiative
cooling, star formation and supernova feedback. Magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) is
implemented using the standard smoothed particle magnetohydrodynamics (SPMHD)
method. We adapt two different initial models for SQ based on Renaud et al. and
Hwang et al., both including four galaxies (NGC 7319, NGC 7320c, NGC 7318a and
NGC 7318b). Additionally, the galaxies are embedded in a magnetized, low
density intergalactic medium (IGM). The ambient IGM has an initial magnetic
field of $10^{-9}$ G and the four progenitor discs have initial magnetic fields
of $10^{-9} - 10^{-7}$ G. We investigate the morphology, regions of star
formation, temperature, X-ray emission, magnetic field structure and radio
emission within the two different SQ models. In general, the enhancement and
propagation of the studied gaseous properties (temperature, X-ray emission,
magnetic field strength and synchrotron intensity) is more efficient for the SQ
model based on Renaud et al., whose galaxies are more massive, whereas the less
massive SQ model based on Hwang et al. shows generally similar effects but with
smaller efficiency. We show that the large shock found in observations of SQ is
most likely the result of a collision of the galaxy NGC 7318b with the IGM.
This large group-wide shock is clearly visible in the X-ray emission and
synchrotron intensity within the simulations of both SQ models. The order of
magnitude of the observed synchrotron emission within the shock front is
slightly better reproduced by the SQ model based on Renaud et al., whereas the
distribution and structure of the synchrotron emission is better reproduced by
the SQ model based on Hwang et al..