Laboratory Determination of the Infrared Band Strengths of Pyrene Frozen
  in Water Ice: Implications for the Composition of Interstellar Ices
Broad infrared emission features (e.g., at 3.3, 6.2, 7.7, 8.6, and 11.3
microns) from the gas phase interstellar medium have long been attributed to
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). A significant portion (10%-20%) of the
Milky Way's carbon reservoir is locked in PAH molecules, which makes their
characterization integral to our understanding of astrochemistry. In molecular
clouds and the dense envelopes and disks of young stellar objects (YSOs), PAHs
are expected to be frozen in the icy mantles of dust grains where they should
reveal themselves through infrared absorption. To facilitate the search for
frozen interstellar PAHs, laboratory experiments were conducted to determine
the positions and strengths of the bands of pyrene mixed with H2O and D2O ices.
The D2O mixtures are used to measure pyrene bands that are masked by the strong
bands of H2O, leading to the first laboratory determination of the band
strength for the CH stretching mode of pyrene in water ice near 3.25 microns.
Our infrared band strengths were normalized to experimentally determined
ultraviolet band strengths, and we find that they are generally ~50% larger
than those reported by Bouwman et al. based on theoretical strengths. These
improved band strengths were used to reexamine YSO spectra published by Boogert
et al. to estimate the contribution of frozen PAHs to absorption in the 5-8
micron spectral region, taking into account the strength of the 3.25 micron CH
stretching mode. It is found that frozen neutral PAHs contain 5%-9% of the
cosmic carbon budget, and account for 2%-9% of the unidentified absorption in
the 5-8 micron region.