A First Look at the Auriga-California Giant Molecular Cloud With
  Herschel and the CSO: Census of the Young Stellar Objects and the Dense Gas
We have mapped the Auriga/California molecular cloud with the Herschel PACS
and SPIRE cameras and the Bolocam 1.1 mm camera on the Caltech Submillimeter
Observatory (CSO) with the eventual goal of quantifying the star formation and
cloud structure in this Giant Molecular Cloud (GMC) that is comparable in size
and mass to the Orion GMC, but which appears to be forming far fewer stars. We
have tabulated 60 compact 70/160um sources that are likely pre-main-sequence
objects and correlated those with Spitzer and WISE mid-IR sources. At 1.1 mm we
find 18 cold, compact sources and discuss their properties. The most important
result from this part of our study is that we find a modest number of
additional compact young objects beyond those identified at shorter wavelengths
with Spitzer. We also describe the dust column density and temperature
structure derived from our photometric maps. The column density peaks at a few
x 10^22 cm^-2 (N_H2) and is distributed in a clear filamentary structure along
which nearly all the pre-main-sequence objects are found. We compare the YSO
surface density to the gas column density and find a strong non-linear
correlation between them. The dust temperature in the densest parts of the
filaments drops to ~10K from values ~ 14--15K in the low density parts of the
cloud. We also derive the cumulative mass fraction and probability density
function of material in the cloud which we compare with similar data on other
star-forming clouds.