Absorption Line Survey of H3+ toward the Galactic Center Sources III.
  Extent of the Warm and Diffuse Clouds
We present follow-up observations to those of Geballe & Oka (2010), who found
high column densities of H3+ ~100 pc off of the Galactic center (GC) on the
lines of sight to 2MASS J17432173-2951430 (J1743) and 2MASS J17470898-2829561
(J1747). The wavelength coverages on these sightlines have been extended in
order to observe two key transitions of H3+, R(3,3)l and R(2,2)l, that
constrain the temperatures and densities of the environments. The profiles of
the H3+ R(3,3)l line, which is due only to gas in the GC, closely matches the
differences between the H3+ R(1,1)l and CO line profiles, just as it does for
previously studied sightlines in the GC. Absorption in the R(2,2)l line of H3+
is present in J1747 at velocities between -60 and +100 km/s. This is the second
clear detection of this line in the interstellar medium after GCIRS 3 in the
Central Cluster. The temperature of the absorbing gas in this velocity range is
350 K, significantly warmer than in the diffuse clouds in other parts of the
Central Molecular Zone. This indicates that the absorbing gas is local to Sgr B
molecular cloud complex. The warm and diffuse gas revealed by Oka et al. (2005)
apparently extends to ~100 pc, but there is a hint that its temperature is
somewhat lower in the line of sight to J1743 than elsewhere in the GC. The
observation of H3+ toward J1747 is compared with the recent Herschel
observation of H2O+ toward Sgr B2 and their chemical relationship and
remarkably similar velocity profiles are discussed.