A search for pre-substellar cores and proto-brown dwarf candidates in
  Taurus: multiwavelength analysis in the B213-L1495 clouds
In an attempt to study whether the formation of brown dwarfs (BDs) takes
place as a scaled-down version of low-mass stars, we conducted IRAM30m/MAMBO-II
observations at 1.2 mm in a sample of 12 proto-BD candidates selected from
Spitzer/IRAC data in the B213-L1495 clouds in Taurus. Subsequent observations
with the CSO at 350 micron, VLA at 3.6 and 6 cm, and IRAM30m/EMIR in the
12CO(1-0), 13CO(1-0), and N2H+(1-0) transitions were carried out toward the two
most promising Spitzer/IRAC source(s), J042118 and J041757. J042118 is
associated with a compact (<10 arcsec or <1400 AU) and faint source at 350
micron, while J041757 is associated with a partially resolved (~16 arcsec or
~2000 AU) and stronger source emitting at centimetre wavelengths with a flat
spectral index. The corresponding masses of the dust condensations are ~1 and
~5 Mjup for J042118 and J041757, respectively. In addition, about 40 arcsec to
the northeast of J041757 we detect a strong and extended submillimetre source,
J041757-NE, which is not associated with NIR/FIR emission down to our detection
limits, but is clearly detected in 13CO and N2H+ at ~7 km/s, and for which we
estimated a total mass of ~100 Mjup, close to the mass required to be
gravitationally bound. In summary, our observational strategy has allowed us to
find in B213-L1495 two proto-BD candidates and one pre-substellar core
candidate, whose properties seem to be consistent with a scaled-down version of
low-mass stars.