Bimodal chemical evolution of the Galactic disk and the Barium abundance
  of Cepheids
In order to understand the Barium abundance distribution in the Galactic disk
based on Cepheids, one must first be aware of important effects of the
corotation resonance, situated a little beyond the solar orbit. The thin disk
of the Galaxy is divided in two regions that are separated by a barrier
situated at that radius. Since the gas cannot get across that barrier, the
chemical evolution is independent on the two sides of it. The barrier is caused
by the opposite directions of flows of gas, on the two sides, in addition to a
Cassini-like ring void of HI (caused itself by the flows). A step in the
metallicity gradient developed at corotation, due to the difference in the
average star formation rate on the two sides, and to this lack of communication
between them. In connection with this, a proof that the spiral arms of our
Galaxy are long-lived (a few billion years) is the existence of this step. When
one studies the abundance gradients by means of stars which span a range of
ages, like the Cepheids, one has to take into account that stars, contrary to
the gas, have the possibility of crossing the corotation barrier. A few stars
born on the high metallicity side are seen on the low metallicity one, and
vice-versa. In the present work we re-discuss the data on Barium abundance in
Cepheids as a function of Galactic radius, taking into account the scenario
described above. The [Ba/H] ratio, plotted as a function of Galactic radius,
apparently presents a distribution with two branches in the external region
(beyond corotation). One can re-interpret the data and attribute the upper
branch to the stars that were born on the high metallicity side. The lower
branch, analyzed separately, indicates that the stars born beyond corotation
have a rising Barium metallicity as a function of Galactic radius.