A family of cometary globules at the periphery of Cyg OB1: the star HBHA
  3703-01 and the reflection nebula GM 2-39
The interstellar medium in the region of a family of cometary globules
including the reflection nebula GM 2-39 has been analyzed basing on our
observations with the slit spectrograph, the results of our previous
observations with a Fabry-Perot interferometer in the H-alpha line, Spitzer
archival data together with CO microwave data. The structure of globules' IR
emission, velocity field of ionized gas in the H-alpha line and of molecular
gas in the CO line have been considered. We have detected a CO cavern around
the eastern globules and faint high-velocity H-alpha features of surrounding
gas. The most probable sources of ionizing radiation and wind of the Cyg OB1
association responsible for the globules' formation are proposed. Based on our
multicolour photometry, it has been found that the brightest compact source in
the southern 'head' of the cometary globule - the star HBHA 3703-01 (IRAS
20153+3850) - is a B(5-6)V star with E(B-V)=1.18 mag. The strong and broad
H-alpha emission line was revealed in its spectrum. The spectral energy
distribution of HBHA 3703-01 in the 0.44-24 micron range has been modeled. It
is shown that the star has a hot dust envelope with T(dust)=1400 K and
tau(V)=1.1. Besides, the star HBHA 3703-01 illuminates the encompassing diffuse
nebula GM 2-39 with a diameter of about 30 arcsec. With regard to all obtained
observational data for HBHA 3703-01, this object may be classified as the
Herbig Ae/Be star.