High CO depletion in southern infrared-dark clouds
Infrared-dark high-mass clumps are among the most promising objects to study
the initial conditions of the formation process of high-mass stars and rich
stellar clusters. In this work, we have observed the (3-2) rotational
transition of C18O with the APEX telescope, and the (1,1) and (2,2) inversion
transitions of NH3 with the Australia Telescope Compact Array in 21
infrared-dark clouds already mapped in the 1.2 mm continuum, with the aim of
measuring basic chemical and physical parameters such as the CO depletion
factor (fD), the gas kinetic temperature and the gas mass. In particular, the
C18O (3-2) line allows us to derive fD in gas at densities higher than that
traced by the (1-0) and (2-1) lines, typically used in previous works. We have
detected NH3 and C18O in all targets. The clumps possess mass, H2 column and
surface densities consistent with being potentially the birthplace of high-mass
stars. We have measured fD in between 5 and 78, with a mean value of 32 and a
median of 29. These values are, to our knowledge, larger than the typical CO
depletion factors measured towards infrared-dark clouds and high-mass dense
cores, and are comparable to or larger than the values measured in low-mass
pre-stellar cores close to the onset of the gravitational collapse. This result
suggests that the earliest phases of the high-mass star and stellar cluster
formation process are characterised by fD larger than in low-mass pre-stellar
cores. Thirteen out of 21 clumps are undetected in the 24 {\mu}m Spitzer
images, and have slightly lower kinetic temperatures, masses and H2 column
densities with respect to the eight Spitzer-bright sources. This could indicate
that the Spitzer-dark clumps are either less evolved or are going to form less
massive objects.