An empirical mass-loss law for Population II giants from the
  Spitzer-IRAC survey of Galactic globular clusters
The main aim of the present work is to derive an empirical mass-loss (ML) law
for Population II stars in first and second ascent red giant branches. We used
the Spitzer InfraRed Array Camera (IRAC) photometry obtained in the 3.6-8
micron range of a carefully chosen sample of 15 Galactic globular clusters
spanning the entire metallicity range and sampling the vast zoology of
horizontal branch (HB) morphologies. We complemented the IRAC photometry with
near-infrared data to build suitable color-magnitude and color-color diagrams
and identify mass-losing giant stars. We find that while the majority of stars
show colors typical of cool giants, some stars show an excess of mid-infrared
light that is larger than expected from their photospheric emission and that is
plausibly due to dust formation in mass flowing from them. For these stars, we
estimate dust and total (gas + dust) ML rates and timescales. We finally
calibrate an empirical ML law for Population II red and asymptotic giant branch
stars with varying metallicity. We find that at a given red giant branch
luminosity only a fraction of the stars are losing mass. From this, we conclude
that ML is episodic and is active only a fraction of the time, which we define
as the duty cycle. The fraction of mass-losing stars increases by increasing
the stellar luminosity and metallicity. The ML rate, as estimated from
reasonable assumptions for the gas-to-dust ratio and expansion velocity,
depends on metallicity and slowly increases with decreasing metallicity. In
contrast, the duty cycle increases with increasing metallicity, with the net
result that total ML increases moderately with increasing metallicity, about
0.1 Msun every dex in [Fe/H]. For Population II asymptotic giant branch stars,
we estimate a total ML of <0.1 Msun, nearly constant with varying metallicity.