Jets and Wide Angle Outflows in Cepheus E: New Evidence from Spitzer
In some protostellar objects both wide angle outflows and collimated jets are
seen, while in others only one is observed. Spitzer provides unprecedented
sensitivity in the infrared to study both the jet and outflow features. Here,
we use HiRes deconvolution to improve the visualization of spatial morphology
by enhancing resolution (to sub-arcsecond levels in the IRAC bands) and
removing the contaminating sidelobes from bright sources. We apply this
approach to study the jet and outflow features in Cep E a young, energetic
Class 0 protostar. In the reprocessed images we detect: (i) wide angle outflow
seen in scattered light; (ii) morphological details on at least 29 jet driven
bow shocks and jet heads or knots; (iii) three compact features in 24 micron
continuum image as atomic/ionic line emission coincident with the jet heads;
and, (iv) a flattened 35 arcsec size protostellar envelope seen against the
interstellar background PAH emission as an absorption band across the protostar
at 8 micron. By separating the protostellar photospheric scattered emission in
the wide angle cavity from the jet emission we show that we can study directly
the scattered light spectrum. We present the H2 emission line spectra, as
observed in all IRAC bands, for 29 knots in the jets and bowshocks and use them
in the IRAC color -- color space as a diagnostic of the thermal gas in the
shocks driven by the jets. The data presented here will enable detailed
modeling of the individual shocks retracing the history of the episodic jet
activity and the associated accretion on to the protostar. The Spitzer data
analysis presented here shows the richness of its archive as a resource to
study the jet/outflow features in H2 and scattered light in a large homogeneous
sample.