Characterizing the structure of diffuse emission in Hi-GAL maps
We present a study of the structure of the Galactic interstellar medium
through the Delta-variance technique, related to the power spectrum and the
fractal properties of infrared/sub-mm maps. Through this method, it is possible
to provide quantitative parameters which are useful to characterize different
morphological and physical conditions, and to better constrain the theoretical
models. In this respect, the Herschel Infrared Galactic Plane Survey carried
out at five photometric bands from 70 to 500 \mu m constitutes an unique
database for applying statistical tools to a variety of regions across the
Milky Way. In this paper, we derive a robust estimate of the power-law portion
of the power spectrum of four contiguous 2{\deg}x2{\deg} Hi-GAL tiles located
in the third Galactic quadrant (217{\deg} < l < 225{\deg}, -2{\deg} < b <
0{\deg}). The low level of confusion along the line of sight testified by CO
observations makes this region an ideal case. We find very different values of
the power spectrum slope from tile to tile but also from wavelength to
wavelength (2 < \beta < 3), with similarities between fields attributable to
components located at the same distance. Thanks to the comparison with models
of turbulence, an explanation of the determined slopes in terms of the fractal
geometry is also provided, and possible relations with the underlying physics
are investigated. In particular, an anti-correlation between ISM fractal
dimension and star formation efficiency is found for the two main distance
components observed in these fields. A possible link between the fractal
properties of the diffuse emission and the resulting clump mass function is
discussed.