Herschel observations of gamma-ray burst host galaxies: implications for
  the topology of the dusty interstellar medium
Long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are indisputably related to star
formation, and their vast luminosity in gamma rays pin-points regions of star
formation independent of galaxy mass. As such, GRBs provide a unique tool for
studying star forming galaxies out to high-z independent of luminosity. Most of
our understanding of the properties of GRB hosts (GRBHs) comes from optical and
near-infrared (NIR) follow-up observations, and we therefore have relatively
little knowledge of the fraction of dust-enshrouded star formation that resides
within GRBHs. Currently ~20% of GRBs show evidence of significant amounts of
dust along the line of sight to the afterglow through the host galaxy, and
these GRBs tend to reside within redder and more massive galaxies than GRBs
with optically bright afterglows. In this paper we present Herschel
observations of five GRBHs with evidence of being dust-rich, targeted to
understand the dust attenuation properties within GRBs better. Despite the
sensitivity of our Herschel observations, only one galaxy in our sample was
detected (GRBH 070306), for which we measure a total star formation rate (SFR)
of ~100Mstar/yr, and which had a relatively high stellar mass
(log[Mstar]=10.34+0.09/-0.04). Nevertheless, when considering a larger sample
of GRBHs observed with Herschel, it is clear that stellar mass is not the only
factor contributing to a Herschel detection, and significant dust extinction
along the GRB sightline (A_{V,GRB}>1.5~mag) appears to be a considerably better
tracer of GRBHs with high dust mass. This suggests that the extinguishing dust
along the GRB line of sight lies predominantly within the host galaxy ISM, and
thus those GRBs with A_{V,GRB}>1~mag but with no host galaxy Herschel
detections are likely to have been predominantly extinguished by dust within an
intervening dense cloud.