Physical Conditions in Barnard's Loop, Components of the Orion-Eridanus
  Bubble, and Implications for the WIM Component of the ISM
We have supplemented existing spectra of Barnard's Loop with high accuracy
spectrophotometry of one new position. Cloudy photoionization models were
calculated for a variety of ionization parameters and stellar temperatures and
compared with the observations. After testing the procedure with recent
observations of M43, we establish that Barnard's Loop is photoionized by four
candidate ionizing stars, but agreement between the models and observations is
only possible if Barnard's Loop is enhanced in heavy elements by about a factor
of 1.4. Barnard's Loop is very similar in properties to the brightest
components of the Orion-Eridanus Bubble and the Warm Ionized Medium (WIM). We
are able to establish models that bound the range populated in low-ionization
color-color diagrams (I([SII])/I(H{\alpha}) versus I([NII])/I(H{\alpha})) using
only a limited range of ionization parameters and stellar temperatures.
Previously established variations in the relative abundance of heavy elements
render uncertain the most common method of determining electron temperatures
for components of the Orion-Eridanus Bubble and the WIM based on only the
I([NII])/I(H{\alpha}) ratio, although we confirm that the lowest surface
brightness components of the WIM are on average of higher electron temperature.
The electron temperatures for a few high surface brightness WIM components
determined by direct methods are comparable to those of classical bright H II
regions. In contrast, the low surface brightness HII regions studied by the
Wisconsin H{\alpha} Mapper are of lower temperatures than the classical bright
HII regions.