Kinematic signature of an intermediate-mass black hole in the globular
  cluster NGC 6388
Intermediate-mass black holes (IMBHs) are of interest in a wide range of
astrophysical fields. In particular, the possibility of finding them at the
centers of globular clusters has recently drawn attention. IMBHs became
detectable since the quality of observational data sets, particularly those
obtained with HST and with high resolution ground based spectrographs, advanced
to the point where it is possible to measure velocity dispersions at a spatial
resolution comparable to the size of the gravitational sphere of influence for
plausible IMBH masses. We present results from ground based VLT/FLAMES
spectroscopy in combination with HST data for the globular cluster NGC 6388.
The aim of this work is to probe whether this massive cluster hosts an
intermediate-mass black hole at its center and to compare the results with the
expected value predicted by the $M_{\bullet} - \sigma$ scaling relation. The
spectroscopic data, containing integral field unit measurements, provide
kinematic signatures in the center of the cluster while the photometric data
give information of the stellar density. Together, these data sets are compared
to dynamical models and present evidence of an additional compact dark mass at
the center: a black hole. Using analytical Jeans models in combination with
various Monte Carlo simulations to estimate the errors, we derive (with 68%
confidence limits) a best fit black-hole mass of $ (17 \pm 9) \times 10^3
M_{\odot}$ and a global mass-to-light ratio of $M/L_V = (1.6 \pm 0.3) \
M_{\odot}/L_{\odot}$.