Spitzer Imaging and Spectral Mapping of the Oxygen-Rich Supernova
  Remnant G292.0+1.8
We present mid-infrared continuum and emission line images of the Galactic
oxygen-rich supernova remnant (SNR) G292.0+1.8, acquired using the MIPS and IRS
instruments on the Spitzer Space Telescope. The MIPS 24 micron and 70 micron
images of G292.0+1.8 are dominated by continuum emission from a network of
filaments encircling the SNR. The morphology of the SNR, as seen in the
mid-infrared, resembles that seen in X-rays with the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Most of the mid-infrared emission in the MIPS images is produced by
circumstellar dust heated in the non-radiative shocks around G292.0+1.8,
confirming the results of earlier mid-IR observations with AKARI. In addition
to emission from hot dust, we have also mapped atomic line emission between 14
micron and 36 micron using IRS spectral maps. The line emission is primarily
associated with the bright oxygen-rich optical knots, but is also detected from
fast-moving knots of ejecta. We confirm our earlier detection of 15-25 micron
emission characteristic of magnesium silicate dust in spectra of the
radiatively shocked ejecta. We do not detect silicon line emission from any of
the radiatively shocked ejecta in the southeast of the SNR, possibly because
that the reverse shock has not yet penetrated most of the Si-rich ejecta in
that region. This may indicate that G292.0+1.8 is less evolved in the southeast
than the rest of the SNR, and may be further evidence in favor of an asymmetric
SN explosion as proposed in recent X-ray studies of G292.0+1.8.