A new code for orbit analysis and Schwarzschild modelling of triaxial
  stellar systems
We review the methods used to study the orbital structure and chaotic
properties of various galactic models and to construct self-consistent
equilibrium solutions by Schwarzschild's orbit superposition technique. These
methods are implemented in a new publicly available software tool, SMILE, which
is intended to be a convenient and interactive instrument for studying a
variety of 2D and 3D models, including arbitrary potentials represented by a
basis-set expansion, a spherical-harmonic expansion with coefficients being
smooth functions of radius (splines), or a set of fixed point masses. We also
propose two new variants of Schwarzschild modelling, in which the density of
each orbit is represented by the coefficients of the basis-set or spline
spherical-harmonic expansion, and the orbit weights are assigned in such a way
as to reproduce the coefficients of the underlying density model. We explore
the accuracy of these general-purpose potential expansions and show that they
may be efficiently used to approximate a wide range of analytic density models
and serve as smooth representations of discrete particle sets (e.g. snapshots
from an N-body simulation), for instance, for the purpose of orbit analysis of
the snapshot. For the variants of Schwarzschild modelling, we use two test
cases - a triaxial Dehnen model containing a central black hole, and a model
re-created from an N-body snapshot obtained by a cold collapse. These tests
demonstrate that all modelling approaches are capable of creating equilibrium
models.