Spitzer View of Massive Star Formation in the Tidally Stripped
  Magellanic Bridge
The Magellanic Bridge is the nearest low-metallicity, tidally stripped
environment, offering a unique high-resolution view of physical conditions in
merging and forming galaxies. In this paper we present analysis of candidate
massive young stellar objects (YSOs), i.e., {\it in situ, current} massive star
formation (MSF) in the Bridge using {\it Spitzer} mid-IR and complementary
optical and near-IR photometry. While we definitely find YSOs in the Bridge,
the most massive are $\sim10 M_\odot$, $\ll45 M_\odot$ found in the Large
Magellanic Cloud (LMC). The intensity of MSF in the Bridge also appears
decreasing, as the most massive YSOs are less massive than those formed in the
past. To investigate environmental effects on MSF, we have compared properties
of massive YSOs in the Bridge to those in the LMC. First, YSOs in the Bridge
are apparently less embedded than in the LMC: 81% of Bridge YSOs show optical
counterparts, compared to only 56% of LMC sources with the same range of mass,
circumstellar dust mass, and line-of-sight extinction. Circumstellar envelopes
are evidently more porous or clumpy in the Bridge's low-metallicity
environment. Second, we have used whole samples of YSOs in the LMC and the
Bridge to estimate the probability of finding YSOs at a given \hi\ column
density, N(HI). We found that the LMC has $\sim3\times$ higher probability than
the Bridge for N(HI) $>10\times10^{20}$ cm$^{-2}$, but the trend reverses at
lower N(HI). Investigating whether this lower efficiency relative to HI is due
to less efficient molecular cloud formation, or less efficient cloud collapse,
or both, will require sensitive molecular gas observations.