Flickering of 1.3 cm Sources in Sgr B2: Towards a Solution to the
  Ultracompact HII Region Lifetime Problem
Accretion flows onto massive stars must transfer mass so quickly that they
are themselves gravitationally unstable, forming dense clumps and filaments.
These density perturbations interact with young massive stars, emitting
ionizing radiation, alternately exposing and confining their HII regions. As a
result, the HII regions are predicted to flicker in flux density over periods
of decades to centuries rather than increasing monotonically in size as
predicted by simple Spitzer solutions. We have recently observed the Sgr B2
region at 1.3 cm with the VLA in its three hybrid configurations (DnC, CnB and
BnA) at a resolution of 0.25''. These observations were made to compare in
detail with matched continuum observations from 1989. At 0.25'' resolution, Sgr
B2 contains 41 UC HII regions, 6 of which are hypercompact. The new
observations of Sgr B2 allow comparison of relative peak flux densites for the
HII regions in Sgr B2 over a 23 year time baseline (1989-2012) in one of the
most source-rich massive star forming regions in the Milky Way. The new 1.3 cm
continuum images indicate that four of the 41 UC HII regions exhibit
significant changes in their peak flux density, with one source (K3) dropping
in peak flux density, and the other 3 sources (F10.303, F1 and F3) increasing
in peak flux density. The results are consistent with statistical predictions
from simulations of high mass star formation, suggesting that they offer a
solution to the lifetime problem for ultracompact HII regions.