Discovery of a new supernova remnant G150.3+4.5
Large-scale radio continuum surveys have good potential for discovering new
Galactic supernova remnants (SNRs). Surveys of the Galactic plane are often
limited in the Galactic latitude of |b| ~ 5 degree. SNRs at high latitudes,
such as the Cygnus Loop or CTA~1, cannot be detected by surveys in such limited
latitudes. Using the available Urumqi 6 cm Galactic plane survey data, together
with the maps from the extended ongoing 6 cm medium latitude survey, we wish to
discover new SNRs in a large sky area. We searched for shell-like structures
and calculated radio spectra using the Urumqi 6 cm, Effelsberg 11 cm, and 21 cm
survey data. Radio polarized emission and evidence in other wavelengths are
also examined for the characteristics of SNRs. We discover an enclosed
oval-shaped object G150.3+4.5 in the 6 cm survey map. It is about 2.5 degree
wide and 3 degree high. Parts of the shell structures can be identified well in
the 11 cm, 21 cm, and 73.5 cm observations. The Effelsberg 21 cm total
intensity image resembles most of the structures of G150.3+4.5 seen at 6 cm,
but the loop is not closed in the northwest. High resolution images at 21 cm
and 73.5 cm from the Canadian Galactic Plane Survey confirm the extended
emission from the eastern and western shells of G150.3+4.5. We calculated the
radio continuum spectral indices of the eastern and western shells, which are
$\beta \sim -2.4$ and $\beta \sim -2.7$ between 6 cm and 21 cm, respectively.
The shell-like structures and their non-thermal nature strongly suggest that
G150.3+4.5 is a shell-type SNR. For other objects in the field of view,
G151.4+3.0 and G151.2+2.6, we confirm that the shell-like structure G151.4+3.0
very likely has a SNR origin, while the circular-shaped G151.2+2.6 is an HII
region with a flat radio spectrum, associated with optical filamentary
structure, H$\alpha$, and infrared emission.