Do Giant Molecular Clouds Care About the Galactic Structure?
We investigate the impact of galactic environment on the properties of
simulated giant molecular clouds formed in a M83-type barred spiral galaxy. Our
simulation uses a rotating stellar potential to create the grand design
features and resolves down to 1.5 pc. From the comparison of clouds found in
the bar, spiral and disc regions, we find that the typical GMC is environment
independent, with a mass of 5e+5 Msun and radius 11 pc. However, the fraction
of clouds in the property distribution tails varies between regions, with
larger, more massive clouds with a higher velocity dispersion being found in
greatest proportions in the bar, spiral and then disc. The bar clouds also show
a bimodality that is not reflected in the spiral and disc clouds except in the
surface density, where all three regions show two distinct peaks. We identify
these features as being due to the relative proportion of three cloud types,
classified via the mass-radius scaling relation, which we label A, B and C.
Type A clouds have the typical values listed above and form the largest
fraction in each region. Type B clouds are massive giant molecular associations
while Type C clouds are unbound, transient clouds that form in dense filaments
and tidal tails. The fraction of each clouds type depends on the cloud-cloud
interactions, which cause mergers to build up the GMA Type Bs and tidal
features in which the Type C clouds are formed. The number of cloud
interactions is greatest in the bar, followed by the spiral, causing a higher
fraction of both cloud types compared to the disc. While the cloud types also
exist in lower resolution simulations, their identification becomes more
challenging as they are not well separated populations on the mass-radius
relation or distribution plots. Finally, we compare the results for three star
formation models to estimate the star formation rate and efficiency in each
region.