Chemical enrichment mechanisms in Omega Centauri: clues from
  neutron-capture elements
In the complex picture of multiple stellar populations in globular clusters
(GCs), a special role is played by NGC 5139 Omega Centauri. At variance with
the majority of GCs, Omega Cen exhibits significant star-to-star variations in
metallicity and in relative neutron-capture element abundance ratios with
respect to Fe, along with split evolutionary sequences as revealed from
colour-magnitude diagrams. Combining information from photometry and
spectroscopy, several studies suggested that an age spread of several Gyr has
to be invoked to explain (at least partially) some of the observed features.
However, a comprehensive understanding of the formation, evolution and chemical
enrichment processes is still not at hand. Relatively metal-rich Omega cen
stars display neutron-capture abundance distributions dominated by
contributions from the s-process, but it is not clear what roles have been
played by the so-called main and weak s-process components in generating these
abundances. To gain better insight into this question we derived lead (Pb)
abundances for several cluster members, because this element can only be
produced by the main s-process. We analysed high-resolution UVES@VLT spectra of
a sample of twelve red-giant branch stars, deriving abundances of Pb and also
of Y, Zr, La, Ce, Eu, and the C+N+O sum. Spectral synthesis was applied to all
features, taking into account isotopic shifts and/or hyperfine structure as
needed. We measured for the first time the Pb content in Omega Cen, discovering
a clear hint for a Pb production occurring at [Fe/H]>-1.7 dex. Our data suggest
that the role of the weak component in the production of s-process elements is
negligible. Moreover, evidence gathered from the abundances of other elements
indicates that the main component occurring in this GC is peculiar and shifted
towards higher mass polluters than the standard one.