On the HI-Hole and AGB Stellar Population of the Sagittarius Dwarf
  Irregular Galaxy
Using two HST/ACS data-sets that are separated by ~2 years has allowed us to
derive the relative proper-motion for the Sagittarius dwarf irregular (SagDIG)
and reduce the heavy foreground Galactic contamination. The proper-motion
decontaminated SagDIG catalog provides a much clearer view of the young
red-supergiant and intermediate-age asymptotic giant branch populations. We
report the identification of 3 Milky Way carbon-rich dwarf stars, probably
belonging to the thin disk, and pointing to the high incidence of this class at
low Galactic latitudes. A sub-group of 4 oxygen-rich candidate stars depicts a
faint, red extension of the well-defined SagDIG carbon-rich sequence. The
origin of these oxygen-rich candidate stars remains unclear, reflecting the
uncertainty in the ratio of carbon/oxygen rich stars. SagDIG is also a gas-rich
galaxy characterized by a single large cavity in the gas disk (HI-hole), which
is offset by ~360 pc from the optical centre of the galaxy. We nonetheless
investigate the stellar feedback hypothesis by comparing the proper-motion
cleaned stellar populations within the HI-hole with appropriately selected
comparison regions, having higher HI densities external to the hole. The
comparison shows no significant differences. In particular, the centre of the
HI-hole (and the comparison regions) lack stellar populations younger than ~400
Myr, which are otherwise abundant in the inner body of the galaxy. We conclude
that there is no convincing evidence that the SagDIG HI-hole is the result of
stellar feedback, and that gravitational and thermal instabilities in the gas
are the most likely mechanism for its formation.