Linking Ly-alpha and Low-Ionization Transitions at Low Optical Depth
We suggest that low optical depth in the Lyman continuum (LyC) may relate the
Ly-alpha emission, C II and Si II absorption, and C II* and Si II* emission
seen in high-redshift galaxies. We base this analysis on Hubble Space Telescope
COS spectra of four Green Pea (GP) galaxies, which may be analogs of z>2
Ly-alpha emitters (LAEs). In the two GPs with the strongest Ly-alpha emission,
the Ly-alpha line profiles show reduced signs of resonant scattering. Instead,
the Ly-alpha profiles resemble the H-alpha line profiles of evolved star
ejecta, suggesting that the Ly-alpha emission originates from a low column
density and similar outflow geometry. The weak C II absorption and presence of
non-resonant C II* emission in these GPs support this interpretation and imply
a low LyC optical depth along the line of sight. In two additional GPs, weak
Ly-alpha emission and strong C II absorption suggest a higher optical depth.
These two GPs differ in their Ly-alpha profile shapes and C II* emission
strengths, however, indicating different inclinations of the outflows to our
line of sight. With these four GPs as examples, we explain the observed trends
linking Ly-alpha, C II, and C II* in stacked LAE spectra, in the context of
optical depth and geometric effects. Specifically, in some galaxies with strong
Ly-alpha emission, a low LyC optical depth may allow Ly-alpha to escape with
reduced scattering. Furthermore, C II absorption, C II* emission, and Ly-alpha
profile shape can reveal the optical depth, constrain the orientation of
neutral outflows in LAEs, and identify candidate LyC emitters.