Simulations of the Origin and Fate of the Galactic Center Cloud G2
We investigate the origin and fate of the recently discovered gas cloud G2
close to the Galactic Center. Our hydrodynamical simulations focussing on the
dynamical evolution of the cloud in combination with currently available
observations favor two scenarios: a Compact Cloud which started around the year
1995 and a Spherical Shell of gas, with an apocenter distance within the
disk(s) of young stars and a radius of a few times the size of the Compact
Cloud. The former is able to explain the detected signal of G2 in the
position-velocity diagram of the Br gamma emission of the year 2008.5 and
2011.5 data. The latter can account for both, G2's signal as well as the
fainter extended tail-like structure G2t seen at larger distances from the
black hole and smaller velocities. In contrast, gas stripped from a compact
cloud by hydrodynamical interactions is not able to explain the location of the
detected G2t emission in the observed position-velocity diagrams. This favors
the Spherical Shell Scenario and might be a severe problem for the Compact
Cloud as well as the so-called Compact Source Scenario. From these first
idealized simulations we expect a roughly constant feeding of the supermassive
black hole through a nozzle-like structure over a long period, starting shortly
after the closest approach in 2013.51 for the Compact Cloud. If the matter
accretes in the hot accretion mode, we do not expect a significant boost of the
current activity of Sgr A* for the Compact Cloud model, but a boost of the
average infrared and X-ray luminosity by roughly a factor of 80 for the
Spherical Shell scenario with order of magnitude variations on a timescale of a
few months. The near-future evolution of the cloud will be a sensitive probe of
the conditions of the gas distribution in the milli-parsec environment of the
massive black hole in the Galactic Center.