A Corona Australis cloud filament seen in NIR scattered light. III.
  Modelling and comparison with Herschel sub-millimetre data
With recent Herschel observations, the northern filament of the Corona
Australis cloud has now been mapped in a number of bands from 1.2um to 870um.
The data set provides a good starting point for the study of the cloud over
several orders of magnitude in density. We wish to examine the differences of
the column density distributions derived from dust extinction, scattering, and
emission, and to determine to what extent the observations are consistent with
the standard dust models. From Herschel data, we calculate the column density
distribution that is compared to the corresponding data derived in the
near-infrared regime from the reddening of the background stars, and from the
surface brightness attributed to light scattering. We construct
three-dimensional radiative transfer models to describe the emission and the
scattering. The scattered light traces low column densities of A_V~1mag better
than the dust emission, remaining useful to A_V ~ 10-15 mag. Based on the
models, the extinction and the level of dust emission are surprisingly
consistent with a sub-millimetre dust emissivity typical of diffuse medium.
However, the intensity of the scattered light is very low at the centre of the
densest clump and this cannot be explained without a very low grain albedo.
Both the scattered light and dust emission indicate an anisotropic radiation
field. The modelling of the dust emission suggests that the radiation field
intensity is at least three times the value of the normal interstellar
radiation field. The inter-comparison between the extinction, light scattering,
and dust emission provides very stringent constraints on the cloud structure,
the illuminating radiation field, and the grain properties.