Reddening and metallicity maps of the Milky Way bulge from VVV and 2MASS
  II. The complete high resolution extinction map and implications for Bulge
  studies
We use the Vista Variables in the Via Lactea (VVV) ESO public survey data to
measure extinction values in the complete area of the Galactic bulge covered by
the survey at high resolution. We derive reddening values using the method
described in Paper I. This is based on measuring the mean (J-Ks) color of red
clump giants in small subfields of 2' to 6' in the following bulge area:
-10.3<b<+5.1 and -10<l<+10.4. To determine the reddening values E(J-Ks) for
each region, we measure the RC color and compare it to the (J-Ks) color of RC
stars measured in Baade's window, for which we adopt E(B-V)=0.55. This allows
us to construct a reddening map sensitive to small scale variations minimizing
the problems arising from differential extinction. The significant reddening
variations are clearly observed on spatial scales as small as 2'. We find a
good agreement between our extinction measurements and Schlegel maps in the
outer bulge, but, as already stated in the literature the Schlegel maps are not
reliable for regions within |b| < 6. In the inner regions we compare our
results with maps derived from DENIS and Spitzer surveys. While we find good
agreement with other studies in the corresponding overlapping regions, our
extinction map has better quality due to both higher resolution and a more
complete spatial coverage in the Bulge. We investigate the importance of
differential reddening and demonstrate the need for high resolution extinction
maps for detailed studies of Bulge stellar populations and structure. The
extinction variations on scales of up to 2'-6', must be taken into account when
analysing the stellar populations of the Bulge.