Berkeley 94 and Berkeley 96: Two Young Clusters with Different Dynamical
  Evolution
We have performed multiband UBVRcIcJHKs photometry of two young clusters
located at large Galactocentric distances in the direction of the Perseus
spiral arm. The obtained distances and colour excesses amount to 3.9+-0.11 kpc,
E(B-V)=0.62+-0.05 for Berkeley 94, and 4.3+-0.15 kpc, E(B-V)=0.58+-0.06 for
Berkeley 96. The respective ages, as measured from the comparison of the upper
colour-magnitude diagrams to model isochrones, amount to LogAge(yr)=7.5+-0.07,
and 7.0+-0.07, respectively. A sequence of optical PMS members is proposed in
both clusters. In addition, samples of objects showing (H-Ks) excess are found.
Part of these are suggested to be PMS cluster members of lower mass than the
optical candidates. The spatial distribution of these sources, the comparison
to galactic models and to the expected number of contaminating distant red
galaxies, and the spectral energy distribution in particular cases support this
suggestion. According to the results from numerical simulations, the spatial
distributions of members in different mass ranges are interpreted as suggesting
different initial conditions and evolutionary dynamical paths for the clusters.
Berkeley 94 would have formed under supervirial conditions, and followed the
so-called warm collapse model in its evolution, whereas Berkeley 96 would have
formed with a subvirial structure, and would have evolved following a cold
collapse path. Both processes would be able to reproduce the suggested degree
of mass segregation and their spatial distribution by mass range. Finally, the
mass distributions of the clusters, from the most massive stars down to PMS
stars around 1.3 Msun, are calculated. An acceptable general agreement with the
Salpeter IMF slope is found.