Carbon and oxygen abundances from recombination lines in low-metallicity
  star-forming galaxies. Implications for chemical evolution
We present deep echelle spectrophotometry of the brightest emission-line
knots of the star-forming galaxies He 2-10, Mkn 1271, NGC 3125, NGC 5408, POX
4, SDSS J1253-0312, Tol 1457-262, Tol 1924-416 and the HII region Hubble V in
the Local Group dwarf irregular galaxy NGC 6822. The data have been taken with
the Very Large Telescope Ultraviolet-Visual Echelle Spectrograph in the
3100-10420 {\AA} range. We determine electron densities and temperatures of the
ionized gas from several emission-line intensity ratios for all the objects. We
derive the ionic abundances of C$^{2+}$ and/or O$^{2+}$ from faint pure
recombination lines (RLs) in several of the objects, permitting to derive their
C/H and C/O ratios. We have explored the chemical evolution at low
metallicities analysing the C/O vs. O/H, C/O vs. N/O and C/N vs. O/H relations
for Galactic and extragalactic HII regions and comparing with results for halo
stars and DLAs. We find that HII regions in star-forming dwarf galaxies occupy
a different locus in the C/O vs. O/H diagram than those belonging to the inner
discs of spiral galaxies, indicating their different chemical evolution
histories, and that the bulk of C in the most metal-poor extragalactic HII
regions should have the same origin than in halo stars. The comparison between
the C/O ratios in HII regions and in stars of the Galactic thick and thin discs
seems to give arguments to support the merging scenario for the origin of the
Galactic thick disc. Finally, we find an apparent coupling between C and N
enrichment at the usual metallicities determined for HII regions and that this
coupling breaks in very low-metallicity objects.