First results from the CALYPSO IRAM-PdBI survey - III. Monopolar jets
  driven by a proto-binary system in NGC1333-IRAS2A
Context: The earliest evolutionary stages of low-mass protostars are
characterised by hot and fast jets which remove angular momentum from the
circumstellar disk, thus allowing mass accretion onto the central object.
However, the launch mechanism is still being debated. Aims: We would like to
exploit high-angular (~ 0.8") resolution and high-sensitivity images to
investigate the origin of protostellar jets using typical molecular tracers of
shocked regions, such as SiO and SO. Methods: We mapped the inner 22" of the
NGC1333-IRAS2A protostar in SiO(5-4), SO(65-54), and the continuum emission at
1.4 mm using the IRAM Plateau de Bure interferometer in the framework of the
CALYPSO IRAM large program. Results: For the first time, we disentangle the
NGC1333-IRAS2A Class 0 object into a proto-binary system revealing two
protostars (MM1, MM2) separated by ~ 560 AU, each of them driving their own
jet, while past work considered a single protostar with a quadrupolar outflow.
We reveal (i) a clumpy, fast (up to |V-VLSR| > 50 km/s), and blueshifted jet
emerging from the brightest MM1 source, and (ii) a slower redshifted jet,
driven by MM2. Silicon monoxide emission is a powerful tracer of
high-excitation (Tkin > 100 K; n(H2) > 10^5 cm-3) jets close to the launching
region. At the highest velocities, SO appears to mimic SiO tracing the jets,
whereas at velocities close to the systemic one, SO is dominated by extended
emission, tracing the cavity opened by the jet. Conclusions: Both jets are
intrinsically monopolar, and intermittent in time. The dynamical time of the
SiO clumps is < 30-90 yr, indicating that one-sided ejections from protostars
can take place on these timescales.