Using H-alpha Morphology and Surface Brightness Fluctuations to Age-Date
  Star Clusters in M83
We use new WFC3 observations of the nearby grand design spiral galaxy M83 to
develop two independent methods for estimating the ages of young star clusters.
The first method uses the physical extent and morphology of Halpha emission to
estimate the ages of clusters younger than tau ~10 Myr. It is based on the
simple premise that the gas in very young (tau < few Myr) clusters is largely
coincident with the cluster stars, is in a small, ring-like structure
surrounding the stars in slightly older clusters (e.g., tau ~5 Myr), and is in
a larger ring-like bubble for still older clusters (i.e., ~5-10 Myr). The
second method is based on an observed relation between pixel-to-pixel flux
variations within clusters and their ages. This method relies on the fact that
the brightest individual stars in a cluster are most prominent at ages around
10 Myr, and fall below the detection limit (i.e., M_V < -3.5) for ages older
than about 100 Myr. These two methods are the basis for a new morphological
classification system which can be used to estimate the ages of star clusters
based on their appearance. We compare previous age estimates of clusters in M83
determined from fitting UBVI Halpha measurements using predictions from stellar
evolutionary models with our new morphological categories and find good
agreement at the ~95% level. The scatter within categories is ~0.1 dex in log
tau for young clusters (<10 Myr) and ~0.5 dex for older (>10 Myr) clusters. A
by-product of this study is the identification of 22 "single-star" HII regions
in M83, with central stars having ages ~4 Myr.