A line confusion-limited millimeter survey of Orion KL. III. Sulfur
  oxide species
We present a study of the sulfur-bearing species detected in a line
confusion-limited survey towards Orion KL performed with the IRAM 30m telescope
in the range 80-281 GHz. The study is part of an analysis of the line survey
divided into families of molecules. Our aim is to derive accurate physical
conditions and molecular abundances in the different components of Orion KL
from observed SO and SO2 lines. First we assumed LTE conditions obtain
rotational temperatures. We then used a radiative transfer model, assuming
either LVG or LTE excitation to derive column densities of these molecules in
the different components of Orion KL. We have detected 68 lines of SO, 34SO,
33SO, and S18O and 653 lines of SO2, 34SO2, 33SO2, SO18O and SO2 v2=1. We
provide column densities for all of them and also upper limits for the column
densities of S17O, 36SO, 34S18O, SO17O and 34SO2 v2=1 and for several
undetected sulfur-bearing species. In addition, we present 2'x2' maps around
Orion IRc2 of SO2 transitions with energies from 19 to 131 K and also maps with
four transitions of SO, 34SO and 34SO2. We observe an elongation of the gas
along the NE-SW direction. An unexpected emission peak appears at 20.5 km/s in
most lines of SO and SO2. A study of the spatial distribution of this emission
feature shows that it is a new component ~5" in diameter, which lies ~4" west
of IRc2. We suggest the emission from this feature is related to shocks
associated to the BN object. The highest column densities for SO and SO2 are
found in the high-velocity plateau (a region dominated by shocks) and in the
hot core. These values are up to three orders of magnitude higher than the
results for the ridge components. We also find high column densities for their
isotopologues in both components. Therefore, we conclude that SO and SO2 are
good tracers, not only of regions affected by shocks, but also of regions with
warm dense gas.