Molecular gas towards G18.8+1.8
This work aims at investigating the characteristics of the molecular gas
associated with the nebula G18.8+1.8, linked to the Wolf-Rayet star HD168206
(WR 113), and its relation to other components of its local interstellar
medium.
  We carried out molecular observations of the 12CO(J=1-0) and (J=2-1) lines
with angular resolution of 44 arcsec and 22 arcsec using the SEST telescope.
Complementary NANTEN data of the 12CO(1-0) line were also used. The dust
emission was analyzed using Spitzer-IRAC images at 8.0 microns, and WISE data
at 3.4, 4.6, and 12.0 microns.
  The SEST data allowed us to identify a molecular component (Cloud 3) having
velocities in the interval from ~ +30 to +36 km/s which is most probably linked
to the nebula. Morphological and kinematical properties suggest that Cloud 3
constitute a wind-blown molecular half-shell, which expands around WR113. The
ratio R_(2-1/1-0) and excitation temperatures indicate that the molecular gas
is being irradiated by strong UV radiation. The location of the inner optical
ring in the outer edge of Cloud 3 suggests that the stars SerOB2-1, -2, -3,
-63, and -64 are responsables for the ionization of Cloud 3 and the inner ring
nebula. A comparison between the spatial distribution of the molecular gas and
the PAH emission at 8 $\mu$m indicates the existence of a PDR between the
ionized and the molecular gas.
  A search for candidate young stellar objects (YSOs) in the region around
G18.8+1.8 based on available 2MASS, MSX, IRAS, and Spitzer-IRAC catalogs
resulted in the detection of about sixty sources, some of them projected onto
Cloud 3. Two small spots of clustered candidates YSOs are projected near the
outer border of Cloud 3, although a triggered stellar formation scenario is
doubtful.