Quantum Mechanics: Structures, Axioms and Paradoxes
We present an analysis of quantum mechanics and its problems and paradoxes
taking into account the results that have been obtained during the last two
decades by investigations in the field of `quantum structures research'. We
concentrate mostly on the results of our group FUND at Brussels Free
University. By means of a spin 1/2 model where the quantum probability is
generated by the presence of fluctuations on the interactions between measuring
apparatus and physical system, we show that the quantum structure can find its
origin in the presence of these fluctuations. This appraoch, that we have
called the 'hidden measurement approach', makes it possible to construct
systems that are in between quantum and classical. We show that two of the
traditional axioms of quantum axiomatics are not satisfied for these 'in
between quantum and classical' situations, and how this structural shortcoming
of standard quantum mechanics is at the origin of most of the quantum
paradoxes. We show that in this approach the EPR paradox identifies a genuine
incompleteness of standard quantum mechanics, however not an incompleteness
that means the lacking of hidden variables, but an incompleteness pointing at
the impossibility for standard quantum mechanics to describe separated quantum
systems. We indicate in which way, by redefining the meaning of density states,
standard quantum mechanics can be completed. We put forward in which way the
axiomatic approach to quantum mechanics can be compared to the traditional
axiomatic approach to relativity theory, and how this might lead to studying
another road to unification of both theories.