Decoherent Histories and Hydrodynamic Equations
For a system consisting of a large collection of particles, a set of
variables that will generally become effectively classical are the local
densities (number, momentum, energy). That is, in the context of the decoherent
histories approach to quantum theory, it is expected that histories of these
variables will be approximately decoherent, and that their probabilites will be
strongly peaked about hydrodynamic equations. This possibility is explored for
the case of the diffusion of the number density of a dilute concentration of
foreign particles in a fluid. This system has the appealing feature that the
microscopic dynamics of each individual foreign particle is readily obtained
and the approach to local equilibrium may be seen explicitly. It is shown that,
for certain physically reasonable initial states, the probabilities for
histories of number density are strongly peaked about evolution according to
the diffusion equation. Decoherence of these histories is also shown for a
class of initial states which includes non-trivial superpositions of number
density. Histories of phase space densities are also discussed. The case of
histories of number, momentum and energy density for more general systems, such
as a dilute gas, is also discussed in outline. When the initial state is a
local equilibrium state, it is shown that the histories are trivally
decoherent, and that the probabilities for histories are peaked about
hydrodynamic equations. An argument for decoherence of more general initial
states is given.