Dynamics of multiply charged ions in intense laser fields
We numerically investigate the dynamics of multiply charged hydrogenic ions
in near-optical linearly polarized laser fields with intensities of order 10^16
to 10^17 W/cm^2. Depending on the charge state Z of the ion the relation of
strength between laser field and ionic core changes. We find around Z=12
typical multiphoton dynamics and for Z=3 tunneling behaviour, however with
clear relativistic signatures. In first order in v/c the magnetic field
component of the laser field induces a Z-dependent drift in the laser
propagation direction and a substantial Z-dependent angular momentum with
repect to the ionic core. While spin oscillations occur already in first order
in v/c as described by the Pauli equation, spin induced forces via spin orbit
coupling only appear in the parameter regime where (v/c)^2 corrections are
significant. In this regime for Z=12 ions we show strong splittings of resonant
spectral lines due to spin-orbit coupling and substantial corrections to the
conventional Stark shift due to the relativistic mass shift while those to the
Darwin term are shown to be small. For smaller charges or higher laser
intensities, parts of the electronic wavepacket may tunnel through the
potential barrier of the ionic core, and when recombining are shown to give
rise to keV harmonics in the radiation spectrum. Some parts of the wavepacket
do not recombine after ionisation and we find very energetic electrons in the
weakly relativistic regime of above threshold ionization.