Quantum-limited linewidth of a good-cavity laser: An analytical theory
  from near to far above threshold
The problem of the quantum-limited or intrinsic linewidth of a good-cavity
laser is revisited. Starting from the Scully-Lamb master equation, we present a
fully analytical treatment to determine the correlation function and the
spectrum of the cavity field at steady state. For this purpose, we develop an
analytical approximation method that implicitly incorporates the microscopic
fluctuations of both the phase and intensity of the field, and, in addition,
takes full account of the saturation of the nonlinear gain. Our main result is
a simple formula for the quantum-limited linewidth that is valid from near to
far above threshold and also includes the presence of thermal photons. Close to
the threshold, the linewidth is twice as large as predicted by the standard
phase-diffusion treatment neglecting intensity fluctuations, and even 50% above
threshold the increase is still considerable. In general, quantum fluctuations
of the intensity are present and continue to influence the linewidth as long as
the photon-number distribution is not strictly Poissonian. This inherent
relationship is displayed by a formula relating the linewidth and the Mandel
Q-parameter. More than 100% above treshold the linewidth is found to be smaller
than predicted by the standard treatment, since the simple phase-diffusion
model increasingly overestimates the rate of phase fluctuations by neglecting
gain saturation. In the limit of a very large mean photon number the expected
perfectly coherent classical field is obtained.