The vacuum interpretation of quantum mechanics and the vacuum universe
Quantum mechanics is interpreted by the adjacent vacuum that behaves as a
virtual particle to be absorbed and emitted by its matter. As described in the
vacuum universe model, the adjacent vacuum is derived from the pre-inflationary
universe in which the pre-adjacent vacuum is absorbed by the pre-matter. This
absorbed pre-adjacent vacuum is emitted to become the added space for the
inflation in the inflationary universe whose space-time is separated from the
pre-inflationary universe. This added space is the adjacent vacuum. The
absorption of the adjacent vacuum as the added space results in the adjacent
zero space (no space), Quantum mechanics is the interaction between matter and
the three different types of vacuum: the adjacent vacuum, the adjacent zero
space, and the empty space. The absorption of the adjacent vacuum results in
the empty space superimposed with the adjacent zero space, confining the matter
in the form of particle. When the absorbed vacuum is emitted, the adjacent
vacuum can be anywhere instantly in the empty space superimposed with the
adjacent zero space where any point can be the starting point (zero point) of
space-time. Consequently, the matter that expands into the adjacent vacuum has
the probability to be anywhere instantly in the form of wavefunction. In the
vacuum universe model, the universe not only gains its existence from the
vacuum but also fattens itself with the vacuum. During the inflation, the
adjacent vacuum also generates the periodic table of elementary particles to
account for all elementary particles and their masses in a good agreement with
the observed values.