Physical model of Schrodinger electron. Feynman convenient way in
  mathematical description of its quantum behaviour
The physical model of a nonrelativistic quantized Schrodinger's electron (SE)
is offered. The behaviour of the SE well spread elementary electric charge had
been understood by means of two independent and different in a frequency and
size motions. The description of this resultant motion may be done by
substitution of the classical Wiener continuous integral with the quantized
Feynmam continuous integral. There are possibility to show by means of the
existent not only formal but substantial analogy between the quadratic
differential wave equation in partial derivatives of Schrodinger and quadratic
differential particle equation in partial derivatives of Hamilton-Jacoby that
the addition of a kinetic energy of the stochastic harmonic oscillation of some
quantized micro particles to the kinetic energy of classical motion of the same
micro particles formally determines their wave behaviour.It turns out the
stochastic motion of the quantized micro particles powerfully to break up the
smooth thin line of the classical motion of the same micro particle in many
broad cylindrically spread path. The SE participate in stochastically roughly
determined circumferences within different flats and with different radii, with
centres which are successively arranjed over short and very disorderly
orientated lines. Therefore the quantized motion of some micro particle cannot
be descripted by smooth thin well contured (focused) line, describing the
classical motion of the macro particle.