Consistent Quantum Reasoning
Precise rules are developed in order to formalize the reasoning processes
involved in standard non-relativistic quantum mechanics, with the help of
analogies from classical physics. A classical or quantum description of a
mechanical system involves a {\it framework}, often chosen implicitly, and a
{\it statement} or assertion about the system which is either true or false
within the framework with which it is associated. Quantum descriptions are no
less ``objective'' than their classical counterparts, but differ from the
latter in the following respects: (i) The framework employs a Hilbert space
rather than a classical phase space. (ii) The rules for constructing meaningful
statements require that the associated projectors commute with each other and,
in the case of time-dependent quantum histories, that consistency conditions be
satisfied. (iii) There are incompatible frameworks which cannot be combined,
either in constructing descriptions or in making logical inferences about them,
even though any one of these frameworks may be used separately for describing a
particular physical system.
  A new type of ``generalized history'' is introduced which extends previous
proposals by Omn\`es, and Gell-Mann and Hartle, and a corresponding consistency
condition which does not involve density matrices or single out a direction of
time. Applications which illustrate the formalism include: measurements of
spin, two-slit diffraction, and the emergence of the classical world from a
fully quantum description.