A Theory of Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
Quantum Error Correction will be necessary for preserving coherent states
against noise and other unwanted interactions in quantum computation and
communication. We develop a general theory of quantum error correction based on
encoding states into larger Hilbert spaces subject to known interactions. We
obtain necessary and sufficient conditions for the perfect recovery of an
encoded state after its degradation by an interaction. The conditions depend
only on the behavior of the logical states. We use them to give a recovery
operator independent definition of error-correcting codes. We relate this
definition to four others: The existence of a left inverse of the interaction,
an explicit representation of the error syndrome using tensor products, perfect
recovery of the completely entangled state, and an information theoretic
identity. Two notions of fidelity and error for imperfect recovery are
introduced, one for pure and the other for entangled states. The latter is more
appropriate when using codes in a quantum memory or in applications of quantum
teleportation to communication. We show that the error for entangled states is
bounded linearly by the error for pure states. A formal definition of
independent interactions for qubits is given. This leads to lower bounds on the
number of qubits required to correct $e$ errors and a formal proof that the
classical bounds on the probability of error of $e$-error-correcting codes
applies to $e$-error-correcting quantum codes, provided that the interaction is
dominated by an identity component.