Field Quantization, Photons and Non-Hermitean Modes
Field quantization in three dimensional unstable optical systems is treated
by expanding the vector potential in terms of non-Hermitean (Fox-Li) modes in
both the cavity and external regions. The cavity non-Hermitean modes (NHM) are
treated using the paraxial and monochromaticity approximations. The NHM
bi-orthogonality relationships are used in a standard canonical quantization
procedure based on introducing generalised coordinates and momenta for the
electromagnetic (EM) field. The quantum EM field is equivalent to a set of
quantum harmonic oscillators (QHO), associated with either the cavity or the
external region NHM. This confirms the validity of the photon model in unstable
optical systems, though the annihilation and creation operators for each QHO
are not Hermitean adjoints. The quantum Hamiltonian for the EM field is the sum
of non-commuting cavity and external region contributions, each of which is sum
of independent QHO Hamiltonians for each NHM, but the external field
Hamiltonian also includes a coupling term responsible for external NHM photon
exchange processes. Cavity energy gain and loss processes is associated with
the non-commutativity of cavity and external region operators, given in terms
of surface integrals involving cavity and external region NHM functions on the
cavity-external region boundary. The spontaneous decay of a two-level atom
inside an unstable cavity is treated using the essential states approach and
the rotating wave approximation. Atomic transitions leading to cavity NHM
photon absorption have a different coupling constant to those leading to photon
emission, a feature resulting from the use of NHM functions. Under certain
conditions the decay rate is enhanced by the Petermann factor.