Adaptive single-shot phase measurements: The full quantum theory
The phase of a single-mode field can be measured in a single-shot measurement
by interfering the field with an effectively classical local oscillator of
known phase. The standard technique is to have the local oscillator detuned
from the system (heterodyne detection) so that it is sometimes in phase and
sometimes in quadrature with the system over the course of the measurement.
This enables both quadratures of the system to be measured, from which the
phase can be estimated. One of us [H.M. Wiseman, Phys. Rev. Lett. 75, 4587
(1995)] has shown recently that it is possible to make a much better estimate
of the phase by using an adaptive technique in which a resonant local
oscillator has its phase adjusted by a feedback loop during the single-shot
measurement. In Ref.~[H.M. Wiseman and R.B. Killip, Phys. Rev. A 56, 944] we
presented a semiclassical analysis of a particular adaptive scheme, which
yielded asymptotic results for the phase variance of strong fields. In this
paper we present an exact quantum mechanical treatment. This is necessary for
calculating the phase variance for fields with small photon numbers, and also
for considering figures of merit other than the phase variance. Our results
show that an adaptive scheme is always superior to heterodyne detection as far
as the variance is concerned. However the tails of the probability distribution
are surprisingly high for this adaptive measurement, so that it does not always
result in a smaller probability of error in phase-based optical communication.