"Extrinsic" and "intrinsic" data in quantum measurements: asymptotic
  convex decomposition of positive operator valued measures
We study the problem of separating the data produced by a given quantum
measurement (on states from a memoryless source which is unknown except for its
average state), described by a positive operator valued measure (POVM), into a
"meaningful" (intrinsic) and a "not meaningful" (extrinsic) part. We are able
to give an asymptotically tight separation of this form, with the "intrinsic"
data quantfied by the Holevo mutual information of a certain state ensemble
associated to the POVM and the source, in a model that can be viewed as the
asymptotic version of the convex decomposition of POVMs into extremal ones.
This result is applied to a similar separation therorem for quantum instruments
and quantum operations, in their Kraus form. Finally we comment on links to
related subjects: we stress the difference between data and information (in
particular by pointing out that information typically is strictly less than
data), derive the Holevo bound from our main result, and look at its classical
case: we show that this includes the solution to the problem of
extrinsic/intrinsic data separation with a known source, then compare with the
well-known notion of sufficient statistics. The result on decomposition of
quantum operations is used to exhibit a new aspect of the concept of entropy
exchange of an open dynamics. An appendix collects several estimates for mixed
state fidelity and trace norm distance, that seem to be new, in particular a
construction of canonical purification of mixed states that turns out to be
valuable to analyze their fidelity.