Quadrature-dependent Bogoliubov transformations and multiphoton squeezed
  states
We introduce a linear, canonical transformation of the fundamental
single--mode field operators $a$ and $a^{\dagger}$ that generalizes the linear
Bogoliubov transformation familiar in the construction of the harmonic
oscillator squeezed states. This generalization is obtained by adding to the
linear transformation a nonlinear function of any of the fundamental quadrature
operators $X_{1}$ and $X_{2}$, making the original Bogoliubov transformation
quadrature--dependent. Remarkably, the conditions of canonicity do not impose
any constraint on the form of the nonlinear function, and lead to a set of
nontrivial algebraic relations between the $c$--number coefficients of the
transformation. We examine in detail the structure and the properties of the
new quantum states defined as eigenvectors of the transformed annihilation
operator $b$. These eigenvectors define a class of multiphoton squeezed states.
The structure of the uncertainty products and of the quasiprobability
distributions in phase space shows that besides coherence properties, these
states exhibit a squeezing and a deformation (cooling) of the phase--space
trajectories, both of which strongly depend on the form of the nonlinear
function. The presence of the extra nonlinear term in the phase of the wave
functions has also relevant consequences on photon statistics and correlation
properties. The non quadratic structure of the associated Hamiltonians suggests
that these states be generated in connection with multiphoton processes in
media with higher nonlinearities.