From the paradoxes of the standard wave-packet analysis to the
  definition of tunneling times for particles
We develop a new variant of the wave-packet analysis and solve the tunneling
time problem for one particle. Our approach suggests an individual asymptotic
description of the quantum subensembles of transmitted and reflected particles
both at the final and initial stage of tunneling. We find the initial states of
both subensembles, which are non-orthogonal. The latter reflects ultimately the
fact that at the initial stage of tunneling it is impossible to predict whether
a particle will be transmitted through or reflected off the barrier. At the
same time, in this case, one can say about the to-be-transmitted and
to-be-reflected subensembles of particles. We show that before the interaction
of the incident packet with the barrier both the number of particles and the
expectation value of the particle's momentum are constant for each subensemble.
Besides, these asymptotic quantities coincide with those of the corresponding
scattered subensemble. On the basis of this formalism we define individual
delay times for both scattering channels. Taking into account the spreading of
wave packets, we define the low bound of the scattering time to describe the
whole quantum ensemble of particles. All three characteristic times are derived
in terms of the expectation values of the position and momentum operators. The
condition which must be fulfilled for completed scattering events is derived.
We propose also the scheme of a {\it gedanken} experiment that allows one to
verify our approach.