Measurement processes in quantum physics: a new theory of measurements
  in terms of statistical ensembles
Considering the recently established arbitrariness the Schroedinger equation
has to be interpreted as an equation of motion for a statistical ensemble of
particles. The statistical qualities of individual particles derive from the
unknown intrinsic energy components, they depend on the physical environment by
way of external potentials. Due to these statistical qualities and wave
function normalization, non-locality is inherent to the fundamental relations
of Planck, de Broglie and Schroedinger. A local formulation of these statements
is introduced and briefly assessed, the modified and local Schroedinger
equation is non-linear. Quantum measurements are analyzed in detail, the exact
interplay between causal and statistical reasons in a measurement process can
be accounted for. Examples of individual measurement effects in quantum theory
are given, the treatment of diffraction experiments, neutron interferences,
quantum erasers, the quantum Zeno effect, and interaction-free measurements can
be described consistent with the suggested framework. The paper additionally
provides a strictly local and deterministic calculation of interactions in a
magnetic field. The results suggest that quantum theory is a statistical
formalism which derives its validity in measurements from considering every
possible measurement of a given system. It can equally be established, that the
framework of quantum physics is theoretically incomplete, because a
justification of ensemble qualities is not provided.