Physical model of Schrodinger's electron. Heisenberg convenient way for
  description of its quantum behaviour
The object of this paper is to discuss the physical interpretation of quantum
behaviour of Schrodinger electron (SchEl) and bring to light on the cause for
the Heisenberg convenient operator way of its describing, using the
nonrelativistic quantum mechanics laws and its mathematical results. We
describe the forced stochastically diverse circular oscillation motion, created
by force of the electrical interaction of the SchEl's elementary electric
charge with the electric intensity of the resultant quantum electromagnetic
field of the existing StchVrtPhtns, as a solution of Abraham-Lorentz equation.
By dint of this equation we obtain that the smooth thin line of a classical
macro particle is rapidly broken of many short and disorderly orientated lines,
owing the continuous dispersion of the quantum micro particle (QntMicrPrt) on
the StchVrtPhtns. Between two successive scattering the centers of diverse
circular oscillations with stochastically various radii are moving along this
short disordered line. These circular oscillations lie within the flats,
perpendicular to same disordered short line, along which are moving its
centers. In a result of same forced circular oscillation motion the smooth thin
line of the LrEl is roughly spread and turned out into some cylindrically wide
path of the SchEl. Hence the dispersions of different dynamical parameters,
determining the state of the SchEl, which are results of its continuously
interaction with the resultant quantum electromagnetic field of the
StchVrtPhtns. The absence of the smooth thin line trajectory at the circular
oscilation moving of the QntMicrPrt forces us to use the matrix elements
(Fourier components) of its roughly spread wide cylindrical path for its
description.