The hidden measurement formalism: what can be explained and where
  quantum paradoxes remain
In the hidden measurement formalism that we develop in Brussels we explain
the quantum structure as due to the presence of two effects, (a) a real change
of state of the system under influence of the measurement and, (b) a lack of
knowledge about a deeper deterministic reality of the measurement process. We
show that the presence of these two effects leads to the major part of the
quantum mechanical structure of a theory where the measurements contain the two
mentioned effects. We present a quantum machine, where we can illustrate in a
simple way how the quantum structure arises as a consequence of the two
effects. We introduce a parameter 'epsilon' that measures the amount of the
lack of knowledge on the measurement process, and by varying this parameter, we
describe a continuous evolution from a quantum structure (maximal lack of
knowledge) to a classical structure (zero lack of knowledge). We show that for
intermediate values of epsilon we find a new type of structure that is neither
quantum nor classical. We analyze the quantum paradoxes and show that they can
be divided into two groups: (1) The group (measurement problem and Schrodingers
cat paradox) where the paradoxical aspects arise mainly from the application of
standard quantum theory as a general theory (e.g. also describing the
measurement apparatus). This type of paradox disappears in the hidden
measurement formalism. (2) A second group collecting the paradoxes connected to
the effect of non-locality (the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and the
violation of Bell inequalities). We show that these paradoxes are internally
resolved because the effect of non-locality turns out to be a fundamental
property of the hidden measurement formalism itself.