Quantum Robots and Environments
Quantum robots and their interactions with environments of quantum systems
are described and their study justified. A quantum robot is a mobile quantum
system that includes a quantum computer and needed ancillary systems on board.
Quantum robots carry out tasks whose goals include specified changes in the
state of the environment or carrying out measurements on the environment. Each
task is a sequence of alternating computation and action phases. Computation
phase activities include determination of the action to be carried out in the
next phase and possible recording of information on neighborhood environmental
system states. Action phase activities include motion of the quantum robot and
changes of neighborhood environment system states. Models of quantum robots and
their interactions with environments are described using discrete space and
time. To each task is associated a unitary step operator T that gives the
single time step dynamics. T = T_{a}+T_{c} is a sum of action phase and
computation phase step operators. Conditions that T_{a} and T_{c} should
satisfy are given along with a description of the evolution as a sum over paths
of completed phase input and output states. A simple example of a task carrying
out a measurement on a very simple environment is analyzed. A decision tree for
the task is presented and discussed in terms of sums over phase paths. One sees
that no definite times or durations are associated with the phase steps in the
tree and that the tree describes the successive phase steps in each path in the
sum.