Physical interpretation of stochastic Schroedinger equations in cavity
  QED
We propose physical interpretations for stochastic methods which have been
developed recently to describe the evolution of a quantum system interacting
with a reservoir. As opposed to the usual reduced density operator approach,
which refers to ensemble averages, these methods deal with the dynamics of
single realizations, and involve the solution of stochastic Schr\"odinger
equations. These procedures have been shown to be completely equivalent to the
master equation approach when ensemble averages are taken over many
realizations. We show that these techniques are not only convenient
mathematical tools for dissipative systems, but may actually correspond to
concrete physical processes, for any temperature of the reservoir. We consider
a mode of the electromagnetic field in a cavity interacting with a beam of two-
or three-level atoms, the field mode playing the role of a small system and the
atomic beam standing for a reservoir at finite temperature, the interaction
between them being given by the Jaynes-Cummings model. We show that the
evolution of the field states, under continuous monitoring of the state of the
atoms which leave the cavity, can be described in terms of either the Monte
Carlo Wave-Function (quantum jump) method or a stochastic Schr\"odinger
equation, depending on the system configuration. We also show that the Monte
Carlo Wave-Function approach leads, for finite temperatures, to localization
into jumping Fock states, while the diffusion equation method leads to
localization into states with a diffusing average photon number, which for
sufficiently small temperatures are close approximations to mildly squeezed
states.