Kinematics and hydrodynamics of spinning particles
In the first part (Sections 1 and 2) of this paper --starting from the Pauli
current, in the ordinary tensorial language-- we obtain the decomposition of
the non-relativistic field velocity into two orthogonal parts: (i) the
"classical part, that is, the 3-velocity w = p/m OF the center-of-mass (CM),
and (ii) the so-called "quantum" part, that is, the 3-velocity V of the motion
IN the CM frame (namely, the internal "spin motion" or zitterbewegung). By
inserting such a complete, composite expression of the velocity into the
kinetic energy term of the non-relativistic classical (i.e., newtonian)
lagrangian, we straightforwardly get the appearance of the so-called "quantum
potential" associated, as it is known, with the Madelung fluid. This result
carries further evidence that the quantum behaviour of micro-systems can be
adirect consequence of the fundamental existence of spin. In the second part
(Sections 3 and 4), we fix our attention on the total 3-velocity v = w + V, it
being now necessary to pass to relativistic (classical) physics; and we show
that the proper time entering the definition of the four-velocity v^mu for
spinning particles has to be the proper time tau of the CM frame. Inserting the
correct Lorentz factor into the definition of v^mu leads to completely new
kinematical properties for v_mu v^mu. The important constraint p_mu v^mu = m,
identically true for scalar particles, but just assumed a priori in all
previous spinning particle theories, is herein derived in a self-consistent
way.