Pole_Factorization Theorem in Quantum Electrodynamics
In quantum electrodynamics a classical part of the S-matrix is normally
factored out in order to obtain a quantum remainder that can be treated
perturbatively without the occurrence of infrared divergences. However, this
separation, as usually performed, introduces spurious large-distance effects
that produce an apparent breakdown of the important correspondence between
stable particles and poles of the S-matrix, and, consequently, lead to apparent
violations of the correspondence principle and to incorrect results for
computations in the mesoscopic domain lying between the atomic and classical
regimes. An improved computational technique is described that allows valid
results to be obtained in this domain, and that leads, for the quantum
remainder, in the cases studied, to a physical-region singularity structure
that, as regards the most singular parts, is the same as the normal
physical-region analytic structure in theories in which all particles have
non-zero mass. The key innovations are to define the classical part in
coordinate space, rather than in momentum space, and to define there a
separation of the photon-electron coupling into its classical and quantum parts
that has the following properties: 1) The contributions from the terms
containing only classical couplings can be summed to all orders to give a
unitary operator that generates the coherent state that corresponds to the
appropriate classical process, and 2) The quantum remainder can be rigorously
shown to exhibit, as regards its most singular parts, the normal analytic
structure.