Quantum Wavelet Transforms: Fast Algorithms and Complete Circuits
The quantum Fourier transform (QFT), a quantum analog of the classical
Fourier transform, has been shown to be a powerful tool in developing quantum
algorithms. However, in classical computing there is another class of unitary
transforms, the wavelet transforms, which are every bit as useful as the
Fourier transform. Wavelet transforms are used to expose the multi-scale
structure of a signal and are likely to be useful for quantum image processing
and quantum data compression. In this paper, we derive efficient, complete,
quantum circuits for two representative quantum wavelet transforms, the quantum
Haar and quantum Daubechies $D^{(4)}$ transforms. Our approach is to factor the
operators for these transforms into direct sums, direct products and dot
products of unitary matrices. In so doing, we find that permutation matrices, a
particular class of unitary matrices, play a pivotal role. Surprisingly, we
find that operations that are easy and inexpensive to implement classically are
not always easy and inexpensive to implement quantum mechanically, and vice
versa. In particular, the computational cost of performing certain permutation
matrices is ignored classically because they can be avoided explicitly.
However, quantum mechanically, these permutation operations must be performed
explicitly and hence their cost enters into the full complexity measure of the
quantum transform. We consider the particular set of permutation matrices
arising in quantum wavelet transforms and develop efficient quantum circuits
that implement them. This allows us to design efficient, complete quantum
circuits for the quantum wavelet transform.