Hilbert Space or Gelfand Triplet - Time Symmetric or Time Asymmetric
  Quantum Mechanics
Intrinsic microphysical irreversibility is the time asymmetry observed in
exponentially decaying states. It is described by the semigroup generated by
the Hamiltonian $\QTR{it}{H}$ of the quantum physical system, not by the
semigroup generated by a Liouvillian $\QTR{it}{L}$ which describes the
irreversibility due to the influence of an external reservoir or measurement
apparatus. The semigroup time evolution generated by $\QTR{it}{H}$ is
impossible in the Hilbert Space (HS) theory, which allows only time symmetric
boundary conditions and an unitary group time evolution. This leads to problems
with decay probabilities in the HS theory. To overcome these and other problems
(non-existence of Dirac kets) caused by the Lebesgue integrals of the HS, one
extends the HS to a Gel'fand triplet, which contains not only Dirac kets, but
also generalized eigenvectors of the self-adjoint $\QTR{it}{H}$ with complex
eigenvalues ($E_R-i\Gamma /2$) and a Breit-Wigner energy distribution. These
Gamow states $\psi ^G$ have a time asymmetric exponential evolution. One can
derive the decay probability of the Gamow state into the decay products
described by $\Lambda $ from the basic formula of quantum mechanics
$\QTR{cal}{P}(t)=Tr(|\psi ^G> < \psi ^G|\Lambda)$, which in HS quantum
mechanics is identically zero. From this result one derives the decay rate
$\QTR{group}{\dot c}(t)$ and all the standard relations between
$\QTR{group}{\dot c}(0)$, $\Gamma $ and the lifetime $\tau_R$ used in the
phenomenology of resonance scattering and decay. In the Born approximation one
obtains Dirac's Golden Rule.