Essentially All Gaussian Two-Party Quantum States are a priori
  Nonclassical but Classically Correlated
Duan, Giedke, Cirac and Zoller (quant-ph/9908056) and, independently, Simon
(quant-ph/9909044) have recently found necessary and sufficient conditions for
the separability (classical correlation) of the Gaussian two-party (continuous
variable) states. Duan et al remark that their criterion is based on a "much
stronger bound" on the total variance of a pair of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type
operators than is required simply by the uncertainty relation. Here, we seek to
formalize and test this particular assertion in both classical and
quantum-theoretic frameworks. We first attach to these states the classical a
priori probability (Jeffreys' prior), proportional to the volume element of the
Fisher information metric on the Riemannian manifold of Gaussian (quadrivariate
normal) probability distributions. Then, numerical evidence indicates that more
than ninety-nine percent of the Gaussian two-party states do, in fact, meet the
more stringent criterion for separability. We collaterally note that the prior
probability assigned to the classical states, that is those having positive
Glauber-Sudarshan P-representations, is less than one-thousandth of one
percent. We, then, seek to attach as a measure to the Gaussian two-party
states, the volume element of the associated (quantum-theoretic) Bures (minimal
monotone) metric. Our several extensive analyses, then, persistently yield
probabilities of separability and classicality that are, to very high orders of
accuracy, unity and zero, respectively, so the two apparently quite distinct
(classical and quantum-theoretic) forms of analysis are rather remarkably
consistent in their findings.