Process, System, Causality, and Quantum Mechanics, A Psychoanalysis of
  Animal Faith
We shall argue in this paper that a central piece of modern physics does not
really belong to physics at all but to elementary probability theory. Given a
joint probability distribution J on a set of random variables containing x and
y, define a link between x and y to be the condition x=y on J. Define the {\it
state} D of a link x=y as the joint probability distribution matrix on x and y
without the link. The two core laws of quantum mechanics are the Born
probability rule, and the unitary dynamical law whose best known form is the
Schrodinger's equation. Von Neumann formulated these two laws in the language
of Hilbert space as prob(P) = trace(PD) and D'T = TD respectively, where P is a
projection, D and D' are (von Neumann) density matrices, and T is a unitary
transformation. We'll see that if we regard link states as density matrices,
the algebraic forms of these two core laws occur as completely general theorems
about links. When we extend probability theory by allowing cases to count
negatively, we find that the Hilbert space framework of quantum mechanics
proper emerges from the assumption that all D's are symmetrical in rows and
columns. On the other hand, Markovian systems emerge when we assume that one of
every linked variable pair has a uniform probability distribution. By
representing quantum and Markovian structure in this way, we see clearly both
how they differ, and also how they can coexist in natural harmony with each
other, as they must in quantum measurement, which we'll examine in some detail.
Looking beyond quantum mechanics, we see how both structures have their special
places in a much larger continuum of formal systems that we have yet to look
for in nature.