Counterfactual Computation
Suppose that we are given a quantum computer programmed ready to perform a
computation if it is switched on. Counterfactual computation is a process by
which the result of the computation may be learnt without actually running the
computer. Such processes are possible within quantum physics and to achieve
this effect, a computer embodying the possibility of running the computation
must be available, even though the computation is, in fact, not run. We study
the possibilities and limitations of general protocols for the counterfactual
computation of decision problems (where the result r is either 0 or 1). If p(r)
denotes the probability of learning the result r ``for free'' in a protocol
then one might hope to design a protocol which simultaneously has large p(0)
and p(1). However we prove that p(0)+p(1) never exceeds 1 in any protocol and
we derive further constraints on p(0) and p(1) in terms of N, the number of
times that the computer is not run. In particular we show that any protocol
with p(0)+p(1)=1-epsilon must have N tending to infinity as epsilon tends to 0.
These general results are illustrated with some explicit protocols for
counterfactual computation. We show that "interaction-free" measurements can be
regarded as counterfactual computations, and our results then imply that N must
be large if the probability of interaction is to be close to zero. Finally, we
consider some ways in which our formulation of counterfactual computation can
be generalised.