Quantum to Classical Transition from the Cosmic Background Radiation
We have revisited the Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber-Pearle (GRWP) approach for
continuous dynamical evolution of the state vector for a macroscopic object.
Our main concern is to recover the decoupling of the state vector dynamics for
the center-of-mass (CM) and internal motion, as in the GRWP model, but within
the framework of the standard cosmology. In this connection we have taken the
opposite direction of the GRWP argument, that the cosmic background radiation
(CBR) has originated from a fundamental stochastic hitting process. We assume
the CBR as a clue of the Big Bang, playing a main role in the decoupling of the
state vector dynamics of the CM and internal motion. In our model, instead of
describing a continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) of a system of massive
particles as proposed by Ghirardi, Pearle and Rimini, the It\^{o} stochastic
equation accounts for the intervention of the CBR on the system of particles.
Essentially, this approach leads to a pre-master equation for both the CBR and
particles degrees of freedom. The violation of the principle of energy
conservation characteristic of the CSL model is avoided as well as the
additional assumption on the size of the GRWP's localization width necessary to
reach the decoupling between the collective and internal motions. Moreover,
realistic estimation for the decoherence time, exhibiting an interesting
dependence on the CBR temperature, is obtained. From the formula for the
decoherence time it is possible to analyze the transition from micro to macro
dynamics in both the early hot Universe and the nowadays cold one. The entropy
of the system under decoherence is analyzed and the emergent `pointer basis' is
discussed. In spite of not having imposed a privileged basis, in our model the
position still emerges as the preferred observable as in the CSL model.