Privacy Amplification in Quantum Key Distribution: Pointwise Bound
  versus Average Bound
In order to be practically useful, quantum cryptography must not only provide
a guarantee of secrecy, but it must provide this guarantee with a useful,
sufficiently large throughput value. The standard result of generalized privacy
amplification yields an upper bound only on the average value of the mutual
information available to an eavesdropper. Unfortunately this result by itself
is inadequate for cryptographic applications. A naive application of the
standard result leads one to incorrectly conclude that an acceptable upper
bound on the mutual information has been achieved. It is the pointwise value of
the bound on the mutual information, associated with the use of some specific
hash function, that corresponds to actual implementations. We provide a fully
rigorous mathematical derivation that shows how to obtain a cryptographically
acceptable upper bound on the actual, pointwise value of the mutual
information. Unlike the bound on the average mutual information, the value of
the upper bound on the pointwise mutual information and the number of bits by
which the secret key is compressed are specified by two different parameters,
and the actual realization of the bound in the pointwise case is necessarily
associated with a specific failure probability. The constraints amongst these
parameters, and the effect of their values on the system throughput, have not
been previously analyzed. We show that the necessary shortening of the key
dictated by the cryptographically correct, pointwise bound, can still produce
viable throughput rates that will be useful in practice.