Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computation With Constant Error Rate
This paper proves the threshold result, which asserts that quantum
computation can be made robust against errors and inaccuracies, when the error
rate, $\eta$, is smaller than a constant threshold, $\eta_c$. The result holds
for a very general, not necessarily probabilistic noise model, for quantum
particles with any number of states, and is also generalized to one dimensional
quantum computers with only nearest neighbor interactions. No measurements, or
classical operations, are required during the quantum computation. The
proceeding version was very succinct, and here we fill all the missing details,
and elaborate on many parts of the proof. In particular, we devote a section
for a discussion of universality issues and proofs that the sets of gates that
we use are universal. Another section is devoted to a rigorous proof that fault
tolerance can be achieved in the presence of general non probabilistic noise.
The systematic structure of the fault tolerant procedures for polynomial codes
is explained in length. The proof that the concatenation scheme works is
written in a clearer way. The paper also contains new and significantly simpler
proofs for most of the known results which we use. For example, we give a
simple proof that it suffices to correct bit and phase flips, we significantly
simplify Calderbank and Shor's original proof of the correctness of CSS codes.
We also give a simple proof of the fact that two-qubit gates are universal. The
paper thus provides a self contained and complete proof for universal fault
tolerant quantum computation.