Separability and distillability in composite quantum systems -a primer-
Quantum mechanics is already 100 years old, but remains alive and full of
challenging open problems. On one hand, the problems encountered at the
frontiers of modern theoretical physics like Quantum Gravity, String Theories,
etc. concern Quantum Theory, and are at the same time related to open problems
of modern mathematics. But even within non-relativistic quantum mechanics
itself there are fundamental unresolved problems that can be formulated in
elementary terms. These problems are also related to challenging open questions
of modern mathematics; linear algebra and functional analysis in particular.
Two of these problems will be discussed in this article: a) the separability
problem, i.e. the question when the state of a composite quantum system does
not contain any quantum correlations or entanglement and b) the distillability
problem, i.e. the question when the state of a composite quantum system can be
transformed to an entangled pure state using local operations (local refers
here to component subsystems of a given system).
  Although many results concerning the above mentioned problems have been
obtained (in particular in the last few years in the framework of Quantum
Information Theory), both problems remain until now essentially open. We will
present a primer on the current state of knowledge concerning these problems,
and discuss the relation of these problems to one of the most challenging
questions of linear algebra: the classification and characterization of
positive operator maps.