Frenet Curves and Successor Curves: Generic Parametrizations of the
  Helix and Slant Helix
In classical curve theory, the geometry of a curve in three dimensions is
essentially characterized by their invariants, curvature and torsion. When they
are given, the problem of finding a corresponding curve is known as 'solving
natural equations'. Explicit solutions are known only for a handful of curve
classes, including notably the plane curves and general helices.
  This paper shows constructively how to solve the natural equations explicitly
for an infinite series of curve classes. For every Frenet curve, a family of
successor curves can be constructed which have the tangent of the original
curve as principal normal. Helices are exactly the successor curves of plane
curves and applying the successor transformation to helices leads to slant
helices, a class of curves that has received considerable attention in recent
years as a natural extension of the concept of general helices.
  The present paper gives for the first time a generic characterization of the
slant helix in three-dimensional Euclidian space in terms of its curvature and
torsion, and derives an explicit arc-length parametrization of its tangent
vector. These results expand on and put into perspective earlier work on
Salkowski curves and curves of constant precession, both of which are
subclasses of the slant helix.
  The paper also, for the benefit of novices and teachers, provides a novel and
generalized presentation of the theory of Frenet curves, which is not
restricted to curves with positive curvature. Bishop frames are examined along
with Frenet frames and Darboux frames as a useful tool in the theory of space
curves. The closed curve problem receives attention as well.