Analysis of evoked EMG using wavelet transformation
Evoked EMG M-responses obtained from the thenar muscle in the palm by
electrical stimulation of the median nerve demonstrate a well-established
smooth bipolar shape for normal healthy subjects while kinks are observed in
certain neurological disorders, particularly in cervical spondylotic
neuropathy. A first differentiation failed to identify these kinks because of
comparable values obtained for normally rising and falling segments of the
smooth regions, and due to noise. In this study, the usefulness of the wavelet
transform (WT), that provides localized measures of non-stationary signals is
investigated. The Haar WT was used to analyze a total of 36 M-responses
recorded from the median nerves of 6 normal subjects (having smooth shape) and
12 subjects with assumed neurological disorders (having kinks), for two points
of stimulation on the same nerve. Features in the time-scale representation of
the M-responses were studied using WT to distinguish smooth M-responses from
ones with kinks. Variations in the coefficient line of the WT were also studied
to allow visualization of WT at different scales (inverse of frequency). The
high and low frequency regions in the WT came out distinctively which helped
identifications of kinks even of very subtle ones in the M-responses which were
difficult to obtain using the differentiated signal. In conclusion, the wavelet
analysis may be a technique of choice in identifying kinks in M-responses in
relation to time, thus enhancing the accuracy of neurological diagnosis.