A Model of the Roles of Essential Kinases in the Induction and
  Expression of Late Long-Term Potentiation
The induction of late long-term potentiation (L-LTP) involves complex
interactions among second messenger cascades. To gain insights into these
interactions, a mathematical model was developed for L-LTP induction in the CA1
region of the hippocampus. The differential equation-based model represents
actions of protein kinase A (PKA), MAP kinase (MAPK), and CaM kinase II
(CAMKII) in the vicinity of the synapse, and activation of transcription by CaM
kinase IV (CAMKIV) and MAPK. L-LTP is represented by increases in a synaptic
weight. Simulations suggest that steep, supralinear stimulus-response
relationships between stimuli (elevations in [Ca2+]) and kinase activation are
essential for translating brief stimuli into long-lasting gene activation and
synaptic weight increases. Convergence of multiple kinase activities to induce
L-LTP helps to generate a threshold whereby the amount of L-LTP varies steeply
with the number of tetanic electrical stimuli. The model simulates tetanic,
theta-burst, pairing-induced, and chemical L-LTP, as well as L-LTP due to
synaptic tagging. The model also simulates inhibition of L-LTP by inhibition of
MAPK, CAMKII, PKA, or CAMKIV. The model predicts results of experiments to
delineate mechanisms underlying L-LTP induction and expression. For example,
the cAMP antagonist RpcAMPs, which inhibits L-LTP induction, is predicted to
inhibit ERK activation. The model also appears useful to clarify similarities
and differences between hippocampal L-LTP and long-term synaptic strengthening
in other systems.