Inferring brain-computational mechanisms with models of activity
  measurements
High-resolution functional imaging is providing increasingly rich
measurements of brain activity in animals and humans. A major challenge is to
leverage such data to gain insight into the brain's computational mechanisms.
The first step is to define candidate brain-computational models (BCMs) that
can perform the behavioural task in question. We would then like to infer,
which of the candidate BCMs best accounts for measured brain-activity data.
Here we describe a method that complements each BCM by a measurement model
(MM), which simulates the way the brain-activity measurements reflect neuronal
activity (e.g. local averaging in fMRI voxels or sparse sampling in array
recordings). The resulting generative model (BCM-MM) produces simulated
measurements. In order to avoid having to fit the MM to predict each individual
measurement channel of the brain-activity data, we compare the measured and
predicted data at the level of summary statistics. We describe a novel
particular implementation of this approach, called probabilistic RSA (pRSA)
with measurement models, which uses representational dissimilarity matrices
(RDMs) as the summary statistics. We validate this method by simulations of
fMRI measurements (locally averaging voxels) based on a deep convolutional
neural network for visual object recognition. Results indicate that the way the
measurements sample the activity patterns strongly affects the apparent
representational dissimilarities. However, modelling of the measurement process
can account for these effects and different BCMs remain distinguishable even
under substantial noise. The pRSA method enables us to perform Bayesian
inference on the set of BCMs and to recognise the data-generating model in each
case.