Neurological Nature of Vision and Thought and Mechanisms of Perception
  Experiences
Understanding of the phenomena of vision and thought require clarification of
the general mechanism of perception. So far, philosophical inquiries and
scientific investigations have not been able to address clearly the mysteries
surrounding them. The present work is an attempt to unravel the essences of
these phenomenal based on the presumption of computational brain. Within this
context, the natures of thought is clarified, and the basis of the experience
of perception is established. And by drawing from the successes of the
developed tactile vision substitution systems (TVSS), which render some measure
of vision,in vision handicapped persons, early or congenital blinds, the true
nature of vision as cutaneous sensations is also divulged. The mechanism of
perception involves sensing of the stimuli, and autonomous engagement of brain
neuronal complexity resolution patterns; that is the brain implicit embedded
computational instructions. Upon commencement of the triggers, brain
computations, which aso involve engaging body's biophysical feedback system,
are performed; and the results are outputted as motor signals that render the
realization of perception. However, this requires deployment of a perception
medium; an interface. Given the nature of efferent signals, there must be a
(known) bio-mechanical system interface, other than the body muscle and
skeletal system, which performs the needed function: Considering the fact that
the vocal system performs such task for verbalization of brain's synthesis of
language, the possibility of its further role in the experience of thought and
vision, in the form of mostly quiet (inaudible) recital of the related motor
signals, is suggested.