Exploring brain transcriptomic patterns: a topological analysis using
  spatial expression networks
Characterizing the transcriptome architecture of the human brain is
fundamental in gaining an understanding of brain function and disease. A number
of recent studies have investigated patterns of brain gene expression obtained
from an extensive anatomical coverage across the entire human brain using
experimental data generated by the Allen Human Brain Atlas (AHBA) project. In
this paper, we propose a new representation of a gene's transcription activity
that explicitly captures the pattern of spatial co-expression across different
anatomical brain regions. For each gene, we define a Spatial Expression Network
(SEN), a network quantifying co-expression patterns amongst several anatomical
locations. Network similarity measures are then employed to quantify the
topological resemblance between pairs of SENs and identify naturally occurring
clusters. Using network-theoretical measures, three large clusters have been
detected featuring distinct topological properties. We then evaluate whether
topological diversity of the SENs reflects significant differences in
biological function through a gene ontology analysis. We report on evidence
suggesting that one of the three SEN clusters consists of genes specifically
involved in the nervous system, including genes related to brain disorders,
while the remaining two clusters are representative of immunity, transcription
and translation. These findings are consistent with previous studies showing
that brain gene clusters are generally associated with one of these three major
biological processes.