The neurobiology of self-generated thought from cells to systems:
  Integrating evidence from lesion studies, human intracranial
  electrophysiology, neurochemistry, and neuroendocrinology
Investigation of the neural basis of self-generated thought is moving beyond
a simple identification with default network activation toward a more
comprehensive view recognizing the role of the frontoparietal control network
and other areas. A major task ahead is to unravel the functional roles and
temporal dynamics of the widely distributed brain regions recruited during
self-generated thought. We argue that various other neuroscientific methods -
including lesion studies, human intracranial electrophysiology, and
manipulation of neurochemistry - have much to contribute to this project. These
diverse data have yet to be synthesized with the growing understanding of
self-generated thought gained from neuroimaging, however. Here, we highlight
several areas of ongoing inquiry and illustrate how evidence from other
methodologies corroborates, complements, and clarifies findings from functional
neuroimaging. Each methodology has particular strengths: functional
neuroimaging reveals much about the variety of brain areas and networks
reliably recruited. Lesion studies point to regions critical to generating and
consciously experiencing self-generated thought. Human intracranial
electrophysiology illuminates how and where in the brain thought is generated
and where this activity subsequently spreads. Finally, measurement and
manipulation of neurotransmitter and hormone levels can clarify what kind of
neurochemical milieu drives or facilitates self-generated cognition.
Integrating evidence from multiple complementary modalities will be a critical
step on the way to improving our understanding of the neurobiology of
functional and dysfunctional forms of self-generated thought.