fMRI Based Cerebral Instantaneous Parameters for Automatic Alzheimer's,
  Mild Cognitive Impairment and Healthy Subject Classification
Automatic identification and categorization of Alzheimer's patients and the
ability to distinguish between different levels of this disease can be very
helpful to the research community in this field, since other non-automatic
approaches are very time-consuming and are highly dependent on experts'
experience. Herein, we propose the utility of cerebral instantaneous phase and
envelope information in order to discriminate between Alzheimer's patients, MCI
subjects and healthy normal individuals from functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI) data. To this end, after performing the region-of-interest (ROI)
analysis on fMRI data, different features covering power, entropy and coherency
aspects of data are derived from instantaneous phase and envelope sequences of
ROI signals. Various sets of features are calculated and fed to a sequential
forward floating feature selection (SFFFS) to choose the most discriminative
and informative sets of features. A Student's t-test has been used to select
the most relevant features from chosen sets. Finally, a K-NN classifier is used
to distinguish between classes in a three-class categorization problem. The
reported performance in overall accuracy using fMRI data of 111 combined
subjects, is 80.1% with 80.0% Sensitivity to both Alzheimer's and Normal
categories distinction and is comparable to the state-of-the-art approaches
recently proposed in this regard. The significance of obtained results was
statistically confirmed by evaluating through standard classification
performance indicators. The obtained results illustrate that introduced
analytic phase and envelope feature indexes derived from the ROI signals are
significantly discriminative in distinguishing between Alzheimer's patients and
Normal healthy subject.