Modelling zebrafish collective behaviours with multilayer perceptrons
  optimised by evolutionary algorithms
Collective movements are pervasive behaviours among social organisms and have
led to the development of many models. However, modelling animal trajectories
and social interactions in simple bounded environments remains a challenge.
Moreover, advances in the understanding of the sensory-motor loop and the
information processing by animals are leading to revisions of the traditional
assumptions made in decision-making algorithms. In this context, we develop a
methodology based on artificial neural networks (ANN) to describe the
collective motion of small zebrafish groups in a bounded environment. Although
ANN models are commonly used in artificial systems they are still
under-explored to model animal collective behaviours. Here, we present a
methodology to calibrate Multilayer Perceptrons by learning from real fish
experimental data. The ANNs are trained using either supervised learning or
various forms of evolutionary reinforcement learning methods (using the CMA-ES
and NSGA-III algorithms). We reveal that ANN models trained using evolutionary
methods are capable of generating realistic collective motions for groups of 5
zebrafish including the tank wall effects, a feature that is lacking in
previous models. Finally, we also discuss the benefits of optimised ANNs as
candidates for driving robotic lure with biologically realistic behaviour, a
method that is becoming increasingly popular to gather data and validate
assumptions on collective behaviours.