Measures of Entropy and Complexity in altered states of consciousness
Quantification of complexity in neurophysiological signals has been studied
using different methods, especially those from information or dynamical system
theory. These studies revealed the dependence on different states of
consciousness, particularly that wakefulness is characterized by larger
complexity of brain signals perhaps due to the necessity of the brain to handle
varied sensorimotor information. Thus these frameworks are very useful in
attempts at quantifying cognitive states. We set out to analyze different types
of signals including scalp and intracerebral electroencephalography (EEG), and
magnetoencephalography (MEG) in subjects during different states of
consciousness: awake, sleep stages and epileptic seizures. The signals were
analyzed using a statistical (Permutation Entropy) and a deterministic
(Permutation Lempel Ziv Complexity) analytical method. The results are
presented in a complexity vs entropy graph, showing that the values of entropy
and complexity of the signals tend to be greatest when the subjects are in
fully alert states, falling in states with loss of awareness or consciousness.
These results are robust for all three types of recordings. We propose that the
investigation of the structure of cognition using the frameworks of complexity
will reveal mechanistic aspects of brain dynamics associated not only with
altered states of consciousness but also with normal and pathological
conditions.