The Hamiltonian brain: efficient probabilistic inference with
  excitatory-inhibitory neural circuit dynamics
Probabilistic inference offers a principled framework for understanding both
behaviour and cortical computation. However, two basic and ubiquitous
properties of cortical responses seem difficult to reconcile with probabilistic
inference: neural activity displays prominent oscillations in response to
constant input, and large transient changes in response to stimulus onset. Here
we show that these dynamical behaviours may in fact be understood as hallmarks
of the specific representation and algorithm that the cortex employs to perform
probabilistic inference. We demonstrate that a particular family of
probabilistic inference algorithms, Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (HMC), naturally
maps onto the dynamics of excitatory-inhibitory neural networks. Specifically,
we constructed a model of an excitatory-inhibitory circuit in primary visual
cortex that performed HMC inference, and thus inherently gave rise to
oscillations and transients. These oscillations were not mere epiphenomena but
served an important functional role: speeding up inference by rapidly spanning
a large volume of state space. Inference thus became an order of magnitude more
efficient than in a non-oscillatory variant of the model. In addition, the
network matched two specific properties of observed neural dynamics that would
otherwise be difficult to account for in the context of probabilistic
inference. First, the frequency of oscillations as well as the magnitude of
transients increased with the contrast of the image stimulus. Second,
excitation and inhibition were balanced, and inhibition lagged excitation.
These results suggest a new functional role for the separation of cortical
populations into excitatory and inhibitory neurons, and for the neural
oscillations that emerge in such excitatory-inhibitory networks: enhancing the
efficiency of cortical computations.