Discovering dynamic functional networks in the human neonatal brain with
  electric source imaging
When the human brain manifests the birth of organised communication among
local and large-scale neuronal populations activity remains undescribed. We
report, in resting-state EEG source-estimates of 100 infants at term age, the
existence of macro-scale dynamic functional connectivity, which have rich
topological organisations, distinct spectral fingerprints and scale-invariance
temporal dynamics. These functional networks encompass the default mode,
primary sensory-limbic system, thalamo-frontal, thalamo-sensorimotor and
visual-limbic system confined in the delta and low-alpha frequency intervals
(1-8 Hz). The temporal dynamics of these networks not only are nested within
much slower timescale (<0.1 Hz) but also correlated in a hierarchical
leading-following organisation. We show that the anatomically constrained
richly organised spatial topologies, spectral contents and temporal
fluctuations of resting-state networks reflect an established intrinsic dynamic
functional connectome in the human brain at term age. The graph theoretical
analysis of the spatial architectures of the networks revealed small-world
topology and distinct rich-club organisations of interconnected cortical hubs
that exhibit rich synchronous dynamics at multiple timescales. The approach
opens new avenues to advance our understanding about the early configuration
organisation of dynamic networks in the human brain and offers a novel
monitoring platform to investigate functional brain network development in sick
preterm infants.