Cooperative regulation of cellular identity in systems with
  intercellular communication defects
The cooperative dynamics of cellular populations emerging from the underlying
interactions determines cellular functions, and thereby their identity in
tissues. Global deviations of this dynamics on the other hand reflects
pathological conditions. However, how these conditions are stabilized from
dis-regulation on the level of the single entities is still unclear. Using
generic Hodgkin-Huxley type of models, we investigate here how channel defects
in single beta-cells affect the intercellular communication, and whether the
collective dynamics of the population can be thereby influenced. We identify a
stark contrast between the dynamical behavior of homogeneous and heterogenous
populations of cells. Whereas in the first case, when all of the cells acquired
channel defects, a coupling interval can be found for which the pathological
dynamics is stabilized and will be exhibited with $\approx 100\%$ probability,
in a heterogenous population, at least $N/2+1$ cells must have the channel
defects in order for the pathological dynamics to be stabilizied. The numerical
simulations demonstrated however that the probability to exhibit the
pathological dynamics in this case is maintained at $<10\%$, even when the
population contains only a single cell that displays physiological dynamics.
This results therefore suggest that the physiological bursting dynamics of a
population of beta-cells is cooperatively regulated, even when single-cells
acquire disfunctional channels that induce intercellular communication defects.