The network architecture of the human brain is modularly encoded in the
  genome
The form of genotype-phenotype maps are typically modular. However, the form
of the genotype-phenotype map in human brain connectivity is unknown. A modular
mapping could exist, in which distinct sets of genes' coexpression across brain
regions is similar to distinct brain regions' functional or structural
connectivity, and in which single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at distinct
sets of genes alter distinct brain regions' functional or structural
connectivity. Here, we leverage multimodal human neuroimaging, genotype, and
post-mortem gene expression datasets to determine the form of the
genotype-phenotype map of human brain connectivity. Across multiple analytic
approaches, we find that both gene coexpression and SNPs are consistently more
strongly related to functional brain connectivity than to structural brain
connectivity. Critically, network analyses of genes and brain connectivity
demonstrate that different sets of genes account for the connectivity of
different regions in the brain. Moreover, the genetic signature of each brain
region reflects its community affiliation and role in network communication.
Connector hubs have genetic signatures that are similarly connector-like, in
that they are representative of the genetic signature of nodes in multiple
other modules. Remarkably, we find a tight relationship between gene
coexpression and genetic variance: SNPs that are located at the genes whose
coexpression is similar to a region's connectivity across cortex tend to
predict more variance in that region's connectivity across subjects than SNPs
at other genes. Finally, brain regions whose connectivity are well explained by
gene coexpression and genetic variance (SNPs) also display connectivity
variance across subjects that tracks variance in human performance on
cognitively demanding tasks, heritability, development, and evolutionary
expansion.