Functional Hypergraph Uncovers Novel Covariant Structures over
  Neurodevelopment
Brain development during adolescence is marked by substantial changes in
brain structure and function, leading to a stable network topology in
adulthood. However, most prior work has examined the data through the lens of
brain areas connected to one another in large-scale functional networks. Here,
we apply a recently-developed hypergraph approach that treats network
connections (edges) rather than brain regions as the unit of interest, allowing
us to describe functional network topology from a fundamentally different
perspective. Capitalizing on a sample of 780 youth imaged as part of the
Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort, this hypergraph representation of
resting-state functional MRI data reveals three distinct classes of
sub-networks (hyperedges): clusters, bridges, and stars, which represent
spatially distributed, bipartite, and focal architectures, respectively.
Cluster hyperedges show a strong resemblance to the functional modules of the
brain including somatomotor, visual, default mode, and salience systems. In
contrast, star hyperedges represent highly localized subnetworks centered on a
small set of regions, and are distributed across the entire cortex. Finally,
bridge hyperedges link clusters and stars in a core-periphery organization.
Notably, developmental changes within hyperedges are ordered in a similar
core-periphery fashion, with the greatest developmental effects occurring in
networked hyperedges within the functional core. Taken together, these results
emphasize that the network organization of human brain emerges across multiple
scales and evolves substantially through the adolescent period.