An Evolutionary Framework for Culture: Selectionism versus Communal
  Exchange
Dawkins' replicator-based conception of evolution has led to widespread
mis-application selectionism across the social sciences because it does not
address the paradox that inspired the theory of natural selection in the first
place: how do organisms accumulate change when traits acquired over their
lifetime are obliterated? This is addressed by von Neumann's concept of a
self-replicating automaton (SRA). A SRA consists of a self-assembly code that
is used in two distinct ways: (1) actively deciphered during development to
construct a self-similar replicant, and (2) passively copied to the replicant
to ensure that it can reproduce. Information that is acquired over a lifetime
is not transmitted to offspring, whereas information that is inherited during
copying is transmitted. In cultural evolution there is no mechanism for
discarding acquired change. Acquired change can accumulate orders of magnitude
faster than, and quickly overwhelm, inherited change due to differential
replication of variants in response to selection. This prohibits a selectionist
but not an evolutionary framework for culture. Recent work on the origin of
life suggests that early life evolved through a non-Darwinian process referred
to as communal exchange that does not involve a self-assembly code, and that
natural selection emerged from this more haphazard, ancestral evolutionary
process. It is proposed that communal exchange provides a more appropriate
evolutionary framework for culture than selectionism. This is supported by a
computational model of cultural evolution and a network-based program for
documenting material cultural history, and it is consistent with high levels of
human cooperation.