Dynamic reshaping of functional brain networks during visual object
  recognition
Emerging evidence shows that the modular organization of the human brain
allows for better and efficient cognitive performance. Many of these cognitive
functions are very fast and occur in subsecond time scale such as the visual
object recognition. Here, we investigate brain network modularity while
controlling stimuli meaningfulness and measuring participant reaction time. We
particularly raised two questions: i) does the dynamic brain network modularity
change during the recognition of meaningful and meaningless visual images? And
ii) is there a correlation between network modularity and the reaction time of
participants? To tackle these issues, we collected dense electroencephalography
(EEG, 256 channels) data from 20 healthy human subjects performing a cognitive
task consisting of naming meaningful (tools, animals) and meaningless
(scrambled) images. Functional brain networks in both categories were estimated
at subsecond time scale using the EEG source connectivity method. By using
multislice modularity algorithms, we tracked the reconfiguration of functional
networks during the recognition of both meaningful and meaningless images.
Results showed a difference in the module characteristics of both conditions in
term of integration (interactions between modules) and occurrence (probability
on average of any two brain regions to fall in the same module during the
task). Integration and occurrence were greater for meaningless than for
meaningful images. Our findings revealed also that the occurrence within the
right frontal regions and the left occipito-temporal can help to predict the
ability of the brain to rapidly recognize and name visual stimuli. We speculate
that these observations are applicable not only to other fast cognitive
functions but also to detect fast disconnections that can occur in some brain
disorders.