Optogenetic vision restoration with high resolution
The majority of inherited retinal degenerations are due to photoreceptor cell
death. In many cases ganglion cells are spared making it possible to stimulate
them to restore visual function. Several studies (Bi et al., 2006; Lin et al.,
2008; Sengupta et al., 2016; Caporale et al., 2011; Berry et al., 2017) have
shown that it is possible to express an optogenetic protein in ganglion cells
and make them light sensitive. This is a promising strategy to restore vision
since optical targeting may be more precise than electrical stimulation with a
retinal prothesis. However the spatial resolution of
optogenetically-reactivated retinas has not been measured with fine-grained
stimulation patterns. Since the optogenetic protein is also expressed in axons,
it is unclear if these neurons will only be sensitive to the stimulation of a
small region covering their somas and dendrites, or if they will also respond
to any stimulation overlapping with their axon, dramatically impairing spatial
resolution. Here we recorded responses of mouse and macaque retinas to random
checkerboard patterns following an in vivo optogenetic therapy. We show that
optogenetically activated ganglion cells are each sensitive to a small region
of visual space. A simple model based on this small receptive field predicted
accurately their responses to complex stimuli. From this model, we simulated
how the entire population of light sensitive ganglion cells would respond to
letters of different sizes. We then estimated the maximal acuity expected by a
patient, assuming it could make an optimal use of the information delivered by
this reactivated retina. The obtained acuity is above the limit of legal
blindness. This high spatial resolution is a promising result for future
clinical studies.