Nonlinearities and Adaptation of Color Vision from Sequential Principal
  Curves Analysis
Mechanisms of human color vision are characterized by two phenomenological
aspects: the system is nonlinear and adaptive to changing environments.
Conventional attempts to derive these features from statistics use separate
arguments for each aspect. The few statistical approaches that do consider both
phenomena simultaneously follow parametric formulations based on empirical
models. Therefore, it may be argued that the behavior does not come directly
from the color statistics but from the convenient functional form adopted. In
addition, many times the whole statistical analysis is based on simplified
databases that disregard relevant physical effects in the input signal, as for
instance by assuming flat Lambertian surfaces. Here we address the simultaneous
statistical explanation of (i) the nonlinear behavior of achromatic and
chromatic mechanisms in a fixed adaptation state, and (ii) the change of such
behavior. Both phenomena emerge directly from the samples through a single
data-driven method: the Sequential Principal Curves Analysis (SPCA) with local
metric. SPCA is a new manifold learning technique to derive a set of sensors
adapted to the manifold using different optimality criteria. A new database of
colorimetrically calibrated images of natural objects under these illuminants
was collected. The results obtained by applying SPCA show that the
psychophysical behavior on color discrimination thresholds, discount of the
illuminant and corresponding pairs in asymmetric color matching, emerge
directly from realistic data regularities assuming no a priori functional form.
These results provide stronger evidence for the hypothesis of a statistically
driven organization of color sensors. Moreover, the obtained results suggest
that color perception at this low abstraction level may be guided by an error
minimization strategy rather than by the information maximization principle.