Cognitive swarming in complex environments with attractor dynamics and
  oscillatory computing
Neurobiological theories of spatial cognition developed with respect to
recording data from relatively small and/or simplistic environments compared to
animals' natural habitats. It has been unclear how to extend theoretical models
to large or complex spaces. Complementarily, in autonomous systems technology,
applications have been growing for distributed control methods that scale to
large numbers of low-footprint mobile platforms. Animals and many-robot groups
must solve common problems of navigating complex and uncertain environments.
Here, we introduce the 'NeuroSwarms' control framework to investigate whether
adaptive, autonomous swarm control of minimal artificial agents can be achieved
by direct analogy to neural circuits of rodent spatial cognition. NeuroSwarms
analogizes agents to neurons and swarming groups to recurrent networks. We
implemented neuron-like agent interactions in which mutually visible agents
operate as if they were reciprocally-connected place cells in an attractor
network. We attributed a phase state to agents to enable patterns of
oscillatory synchronization similar to hippocampal models of theta-rhythmic
(5-12 Hz) sequence generation. We demonstrate that multi-agent swarming and
reward-approach dynamics can be expressed as a mobile form of Hebbian learning
and that NeuroSwarms supports a single-entity paradigm that directly informs
theoretical models of animal cognition. We present emergent behaviors including
phase-organized rings and trajectory sequences that interact with environmental
cues and geometry in large, fragmented mazes. Thus, NeuroSwarms is a model
artificial spatial system that integrates autonomous control and theoretical
neuroscience to potentially uncover common principles to advance both domains.