Stochastic lattice model of synaptic membrane protein domains
Neurotransmitter receptor molecules, concentrated in synaptic membrane
domains along with scaffolds and other kinds of proteins, are crucial for
signal transmission across chemical synapses. In common with other membrane
protein domains, synaptic domains are characterized by low protein copy numbers
and protein crowding, with rapid stochastic turnover of individual molecules.
We study here in detail a stochastic lattice model of the receptor-scaffold
reaction-diffusion dynamics at synaptic domains that was found previously to
capture, at the mean-field level, the self-assembly, stability, and
characteristic size of synaptic domains observed in experiments. We show that
our stochastic lattice model yields quantitative agreement with mean-field
models of nonlinear diffusion in crowded membranes. Through a combination of
analytic and numerical solutions of the master equation governing the reaction
dynamics at synaptic domains, together with kinetic Monte Carlo simulations, we
find substantial discrepancies between mean-field and stochastic models for the
reaction dynamics at synaptic domains. Based on the reaction and diffusion
properties of synaptic receptors and scaffolds suggested by previous
experiments and mean-field calculations, we show that the stochastic
reaction-diffusion dynamics of synaptic receptors and scaffolds provide a
simple physical mechanism for collective fluctuations in synaptic domains, the
molecular turnover observed at synaptic domains, key features of the observed
single-molecule trajectories, and spatial heterogeneity in the effective rates
at which receptors and scaffolds are recycled at the cell membrane. Our work
sheds light on the physical mechanisms and principles linking the collective
properties of membrane protein domains to the stochastic dynamics that rule
their molecular~components.