Attention but not musical training affects auditory streaming
While musicians generally perform better than non-musicians in various
auditory discrimination tasks, effects of specific instrumental training have
received little attention. The effects of instrument-specific musical training
on auditory grouping in the context of stream segregation are investigated here
in three experiments. In Experiment 1a, participants listened to sequences of
ABA tones and indicated when they heard a change in rhythm. This change is
caused by the manipulation of the B tones' timbre and indexes a change in
perception from integration to segregation, or vice versa. While it was
expected that musicians would detect a change in rhythm earlier when their own
instrument was involved, no such pattern was observed. In Experiment 1b,
designed to control for potential expectation effects in Experiment 1a,
participants heard sequences of static ABA tones and reported their initial
perceptions, whether the sequence was integrated or segregated. Results show
that participants tend to initially perceive these static sequences as
segregated, and that perception is influenced by similarity between the timbres
involved. Finally, in Experiment 2 violinists and flautists located mistuned
notes in an interleaved melody paradigm containing a violin and a flute melody.
Performance did not depend on the instrument the participant played but rather
which melody their attention was directed to. Taken together, results from the
three experiments suggest that the specific instrument one practices does not
have an influence on auditory grouping, but attentional mechanisms are
necessary for processing auditory scenes.