Spike-timing-dependent plasticity with axonal delay tunes networks of
  Izhikevich neurons to the edge of synchronization transition with scale-free
  avalanches
Critical brain hypothesis has been intensively studied both in experimental
and theoretical neuroscience over the past two decades. However, some important
questions still remain: (i) What is the critical point the brain operates at?
(ii) What is the regulatory mechanism that brings about and maintains such a
critical state? (iii) The critical state is characterized by scale-invariant
behavior which is seemingly at odds with definitive brain oscillations? In this
work we consider a biologically motivated model of Izhikevich neuronal network
with chemical synapses interacting via spike-timingdependent plasticity (STDP)
as well as axonal time delay. Under generic and physiologically relevant
conditions we show that the system is organized and maintained around a
synchronization transition point as opposed to an activity transition point
associated with an absorbing state phase transition. However, such a state
exhibits experimentally relevant signs of critical dynamics including
scale-free avalanches with finite-size scaling as well as branching ratios.
While the system displays stochastic oscillations with highly correlated
fluctuations, it also displays dominant frequency modes seen as sharp peaks in
the power spectrum. The role of STDP as well as time delay is crucial in
achieving and maintaining such critical dynamics, while the role of inhibition
is not as crucial. In this way we provide definitive answers to all three
questions posed above. We also show that one can achieve supercritical or
subcritical dynamics if one changes the average time delay associated with
axonal conduction.