Comparative study of training intensity in neurofeedback
Neurofeedback has proved to be useful in many instances. This technique is
often used to address both medical issues and performance improvement. Despite
the wide range of applications, no consensus has been reached about the optimal
training schedule.
  In this work, a practical experiment was conducted aiming to compare the
effects of intensive and sparse training modalities of enhancement of the
individual upper alpha band at Fz, for working memory improvement, in 19
healthy subjects. The INTENSIVE group was submitted to 4 sessions of 37.5
minutes each, during consecutive days, while the SPARSE group performed 15
sessions of 25 minutes along approximately 2 months.
  The intensive modality proved to be significantly more effective in
increasing the target frequency at Fz within session. However, no significant
differences were found across sessions neither regarding cognitive
improvements. The distinction between learners and non-learners led to
significant results for the two groups across sessions, but only the learners
of the INTENSIVE group show significant changes within session. Besides, for
this subsample the effects in the INTENSIVE group are significantly stronger
both within and across sessions.
  The results suggest that longer sessions with shorter trials and more breaks
could be advantageous when training healthy subjects. Although further
investigation is needed to establish if one modality outperforms the other,
better outcomes might be obtained if each session consists in many short trials
(in this case 30 seconds) and is performed on consecutive days.