Mapping how local perturbations influence systems-level brain dynamics
The human brain exhibits a relatively stable spatiotemporal organization that
supports brain function and can be manipulated via local brain stimulation.
Such perturbations to local cortical dynamics are globally integrated by
distinct neural systems. However, it remains unclear how and why local changes
in neural activity affect large-scale system dynamics. Here, we briefly review
empirical and computational studies addressing how localized perturbations
affect brain activity. We then systematically analyze a model of large-scale
brain dynamics, assessing how localized changes in brain activity at the
different sites affect whole-brain dynamics. We find that local stimulation
induces changes in brain activity that can be summarized by relatively smooth
tuning curves, which relate a region's effectiveness as a stimulation site to
its position within the cortical hierarchy. Our results also support the notion
that brain hubs, operating in a slower regime, are more resilient to focal
perturbations and critically contribute to maintain stability in global brain
dynamics. In contrast, perturbations of peripheral regions, characterized by
faster activity, have greater impact on functional connectivity. As a parallel
with this region-level result, we also find that peripheral systems such as the
visual and sensorimotor networks were more affected by local perturbations than
high-level systems such as the cingulo-opercular network. Our results highlight
the importance of a periphery-to-core hierarchy to determine the effect of
local stimulation on the brain network. We also provide novel resources to
orient empirical work aiming at manipulating functional connectivity using
non-invasive brain stimulation.