Integrated information and dimensionality in continuous attractor
  dynamics
There has been increasing interest in the integrated information theory (IIT)
ofconsciousness, which hypothesizes that consciousness is integrated
information withinneuronal dynamics. However, the current formulation of IIT
poses both practical andtheoretical problems when we aim to empirically test
the theory by computingintegrated information from neuronal signals. For
example, measuring integratedinformation requires observing all the elements in
the considered system at the sametime, but this is practically rather
difficult. In addition, the interpretation of the spatialpartition needed to
compute integrated information becomes vague in continuous time-series
variables due to a general property of nonlinear dynamical systems known
as"embedding." Here, we propose that some aspects of such problems are resolved
byconsidering the topological dimensionality of shared attractor dynamics as an
indicatorof integrated information in continuous attractor dynamics. In this
formulation, theeffects of unobserved nodes on the attractor dynamics can be
reconstructed using atechnique called delay embedding, which allows us to
identify the dimensionality of anembedded attractor from partial observations.
We propose that the topologicaldimensionality represents a critical property of
integrated information, as it is invariantto general coordinate
transformations. We illustrate this new framework with simpleexamples and
discuss how it fits together with recent findings based on neuralrecordings
from awake and anesthetized animals. This topological approach extendsthe
existing notions of IIT to continuous dynamical systems and offers a
much-neededframework for testing the theory with experimental data by
substantially relaxing theconditions required for evaluating integrated
information in real neural systems.