A point process framework for modeling electrical stimulation of the
  auditory nerve
Model-based studies of auditory nerve responses to electrical stimulation can
provide insight into the functioning of cochlear implants. Ideally, these
studies can identify limitations in sound processing strategies and lead to
improved methods for providing sound information to cochlear implant users. To
accomplish this, models must accurately describe auditory nerve spiking while
avoiding excessive complexity that would preclude large-scale simulations of
populations of auditory nerve fibers and obscure insight into the mechanisms
that influence neural encoding of sound information. In this spirit, we develop
a point process model of the auditory nerve that provides a compact and
accurate description of neural responses to electric stimulation. Inspired by
the framework of generalized linear models, the proposed model consists of a
cascade of linear and nonlinear stages. We show how each of these stages can be
associated with biophysical mechanisms and related to models of neuronal
dynamics. Moreover, we derive a semi-analytical procedure that uniquely
determines each parameter in the model on the basis of fundamental statistics
from recordings of single fiber responses to electric stimulation, including
threshold, relative spread, jitter, and chronaxie. The model also accounts for
refractory and summation effects that influence the responses of auditory nerve
fibers to high pulse rate stimulation. Throughout, we compare model predictions
to published physiological data and explain differences in auditory nerve
responses to high and low pulse rate stimulation. We close by performing an
ideal observer analysis of simulated spike trains in response to sinusoidally
amplitude modulated stimuli and find that carrier pulse rate does not affect
modulation detection thresholds.