Effect of Neuromodulation of Short-Term Plasticity on Information
  Processing in Hippocampal Interneuron Synapses
Neurons in a micro-circuit connected by chemical synapses can have their
connectivity affected by the prior activity of the cells. The number of
synapses available for releasing neurotransmitter can be decreased by
repetitive activation through depletion of readily releasable neurotransmitter
(NT), or increased through facilitation, where the probability of release of NT
is increased by prior activation. These competing effects can create a
complicated and subtle range of time dependent connectivity. Here we
investigate the probabilistic properties of facilitation and depression (FD)
for a presynaptic neuron that is receiving a Poisson spike train of input. We
use a model of FD that is parameterized with experimental data from a
hippocampal basket cell and pyramidal cell connection, for fixed frequency
input spikes at frequencies in the range of theta and gamma oscillations. Hence
our results will apply to micro-circuits in the hippocampus that are
responsible for the interaction of theta and gamma rhythms associated with
learning and memory. A control situation is compared with one in which a
pharmaceutical neuromodulator (muscarine) is employed. We apply standard
information theoretic measures such as entropy and mutual information, and find
a closed form approximate expression for the probability distribution of
release probability. We also use techniques that measure the dependence of the
response on the exact history of stimulation the synapse has received, which
uncovers some unexpected differences between control and muscarine-added cases.