Emotion self-regulation training in major depressive disorder using
  simultaneous real-time fMRI and EEG neurofeedback
Simultaneous real-time fMRI and EEG neurofeedback (rtfMRI-EEG-nf) is an
emerging neuromodulation approach, that enables simultaneous volitional
regulation of both hemodynamic (BOLD fMRI) and electrophysiological (EEG)
regional brain activities. Here we report the first application of
rtfMRI-EEG-nf for emotion self-regulation training in patients with major
depressive disorder (MDD). In this proof-of-concept study, MDD patients in the
experimental group (n=16) used rtfMRI-EEG-nf during a happy emotion induction
task to simultaneously upregulate four brain activity measures relevant to MDD.
The target measures included BOLD activities of the left amygdala (LA) and left
rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC), and frontal EEG asymmetries in the
alpha band (FAA, [7.5-12.5] Hz) and high-beta band (FBA, [21-30] Hz). MDD
patients in the control group (n=8) were provided with sham feedback signals.
The experimental group participants achieved significant increases in the LA
BOLD activity, FAA, and FBA during the rtfMRI-EEG-nf task, as well as
significant enhancement in fMRI connectivity between the LA and left rACC.
Temporal correlations between the FAA and FBA time courses and the LA BOLD
activity were significantly enhanced during the rtfMRI-EEG-nf task. The
experimental group participants reported significant mood improvements after
the training. Our results demonstrate potential of the rtfMRI-EEG-nf for
treatment of MDD.