A Cognition-Affect Integrated Model of Emotion
"What is an emotion?", an old riddle is repeatedly being attempted with
advance modern tools and understanding of the age. With the new advancements
old theories are tested and new ones are formed. Such is the case with
theorizing and modeling emotion which is broadly shifting from classical
definite marker theory to statistically context situated conceptual theory.
However, the role of context processing and its interaction with the affect is
still not comprehensively explored and modeled. In this article, we present a
'cognition-affect integrated model of emotion' which includes many cortical and
subcortical regions. With the help of functional networks, neural decoding, and
deep learning based multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) of individual cognitive
component, we arrived at the conclusion that core affect is unable to provide
varieties of emotions unless coupled with cortical cognitive functions such as
autobiographical memory, dmn, self-referential, social, tom and salient event
detection. Our model suggests three testable hypotheses. First, affect and
physiological sensations alone are inconsequential in defining or classifying
emotions until integrated with the domain-general cognitive systems. Second,
cognition and affect modulate each other throughout the generation of
meaningful instance situated in the current context. And, finally, the
structural and temporal hierarchy in brain organization and anatomical
projections plays an important role in emotion responses in terms of
physiological activities and their duration. The model along with the
analytical and anatomical support is presented. The article concludes with the
future research questions.