Tensor-driven extraction of developmental features from varying
  paediatric EEG datasets
Objective. Consistently changing physiological properties in developing
children's brains challenges new data heavy technologies, like brain-computer
interfaces (BCI). Advancing signal processing methods in such technologies to
be more sensitive to developmental changes could help improve their function
and usability in paediatric populations. Taking advantage of the
multi-dimensional structure of EEG data through tensor analysis offers a
framework to extract relevant developmental features present in paediatric
resting-state EEG datasets. Methods. Three paediatric datasets from varying
developmental states and populations were analyzed using a developed two-step
constrained Parallel Factor (PARAFAC) tensor decomposition. The datasets
included the Muir Maxwell Epilepsy Centre, Children's Hospital Boston-MIT and
the Child Mind Institute, outlining two impaired and one healthy population,
respectively. Within dataset cross-validation used support vector machines
(SVM) for classification of out-of-fold data predicting subject age as a proxy
measure of development. t-distributed Stochastic Neighbour Embedding (t-SNE)
maps complemented classification analysis through visualization of the
high-dimensional feature structures. Main Results. Development-sensitive
features were successfully identified for the developmental conditions of each
dataset. SVM classification accuracy and misclassification costs were improved
significantly for both healthy and impaired paediatric populations. t-SNE maps
revealed suitable tensor factorization was key in extracting developmental
features. Significance. The described methods are a promising tool for
incorporating the unique developmental features present throughout childhood
EEG into new technologies like BCI and its applications.