Critical elements for connectivity analysis of brain networks
In recent years, new and important perspectives were introduced in the field
of neuroimaging with the emergence of the connectionist approach. In this new
context, it is important to know not only which brain areas are activated by a
particular stimulus but, mainly, how these areas are structurally and
functionally connected, distributed, and organized in relation to other areas.
Additionally, the arrangement of the network elements, i.e., its topology, and
the dynamics they give rise to are also important. This new approach is called
connectomics. It brings together a series of techniques and methodologies
capable of systematizing, from the different types of signals and images of the
nervous system, how neuronal units to brain areas are connected. Through this
approach, the different patterns of connectivity can be graphically and
mathematically represented by the so-called connectomes. The connectome uses
quantitative metrics to evaluate structural and functional information from
images of neural tracts and pathways or signals from the metabolic and/or
electrophysiologic activity of cell populations or brain areas. Besides, with
adequate treatment of this information, it is also possible to infer causal
relationships. In this way, structural and functional evaluations are
complementary descriptions which, together, represent the anatomic and
physiologic neural properties, establishing a new paradigm for understanding
how the brain functions by looking at brain connections. Here, we highlight
five critical elements of a network that allows an integrative analysis,
focusing mainly on a functional description. These elements include; (i) the
properties of its nodes; (ii) the metrics for connectivity and coupling between
nodes; (iii) the network topologies; (iv) the network dynamics and (v) the
interconnections between different domains and scales of network
representations.