A Cognitive Model of an Epistemic Community: Mapping the Dynamics of
  Shallow Lake Ecosystems
We used fuzzy cognitive mapping (FCM) to develop a generic shallow lake
ecosystem model by augmenting the individual cognitive maps drawn by 8
scientists working in the area of shallow lake ecology. We calculated graph
theoretical indices of the individual cognitive maps and the collective
cognitive map produced by augmentation. The graph theoretical indices revealed
internal cycles showing non-linear dynamics in the shallow lake ecosystem. The
ecological processes were organized democratically without a top-down
hierarchical structure. The steady state condition of the generic model was a
characteristic turbid shallow lake ecosystem since there were no dynamic
environmental changes that could cause shifts between a turbid and a clearwater
state, and the generic model indicated that only a dynamic disturbance regime
could maintain the clearwater state. The model developed herein captured the
empirical behavior of shallow lakes, and contained the basic model of the
Alternative Stable States Theory. In addition, our model expanded the basic
model by quantifying the relative effects of connections and by extending it.
In our expanded model we ran 4 simulations: harvesting submerged plants,
nutrient reduction, fish removal without nutrient reduction, and
biomanipulation. Only biomanipulation, which included fish removal and nutrient
reduction, had the potential to shift the turbid state into clearwater state.
The structure and relationships in the generic model as well as the outcomes of
the management simulations were supported by actual field studies in shallow
lake ecosystems. Thus, fuzzy cognitive mapping methodology enabled us to
understand the complex structure of shallow lake ecosystems as a whole and
obtain a valid generic model based on tacit knowledge of experts in the field.