Percept formation from neural populations in sensory decision-making
  tasks
We study a standard linear readout model of perceptual integration from a
population of sensory neurons. We show that the readout can be associated to a
set of characteristic equations which summarize the joint trial-to-trial
covariance structure of neural activities and animal percept. These
characteristic equations implicitly determine the readout parameters that were
used by the animal to create its percept. In particular, they implicitly
constrain the temporal integration window w and the typical number of neurons K
which give rise to the percept. Comparing neural and behavioral sensitivity
alone cannot disentangle these two sources of perceptual integration, so the
characteristic equations also involve a measure of choice signals, like those
assessed by the classic experimental measure of choice probabilities. We then
propose a statistical method of analysis which allows to recover the typical
scales of integration w and K from finite numbers of recorded neurons and
recording trials, and show the efficiency of this method on an artificial
encoding network. We also study the statistical method theoretically, and
relate its laws of convergence to the underlying structure of neural activity
in the population, as described through its singular value decomposition.
Altogether, our method provides the first thorough interpretation of
feedforward percept formation from a population of sensory neurons. It can
readily be applied to experimental recordings in classic sensory
decision-making tasks, and hopefully provide new insights into the nature of
perceptual integration.