How Predictable are Symptoms in Psychopathological Networks? A
  Reanalysis of 18 Published Datasets
Background Network analyses on psychopathological data focus on the network
structure and its derivatives such as node centrality. One conclusion one can
draw from centrality measures is that the node with the highest centrality is
likely to be the node that is determined most by its neighboring nodes.
However, centrality is a relative measure: knowing that a node is highly
central gives no information about the extent to which it is determined by its
neighbors. Here we provide an absolute measure of determination (or
controllability) of a node - its predictability. We introduce predictability,
estimate the predictability of all nodes in 18 prior empirical network papers
on psychopathology, and statistically relate it to centrality.
  Methods We carried out a literature review and collected 25 datasets from 18
published papers in the field (several mood and anxiety disorders, substance
abuse, psychosis, autism, and transdiagnostic data). We fit state-of-the-art
net- work models to all datasets, and computed the predictability of all nodes.
  Results Predictability was unrelated to sample size, moderately high in most
symptom networks, and differed considerable both within and between datasets.
Predictability was higher in community than clinical samples, highest for mood
and anxiety disorders, and lowest for psychosis.
  Conclusions Predictability is an important additional characterization of
symptom networks because it gives an absolute measure of the controllability of
each node. It allows conclusions about how self-determined a symptom network
is, and may help to inform intervention strategies. Limitations of
predictability along with future directions are discussed.