Detecting functional decline from normal ageing to dementia: development
  and validation of a short version of the Amsterdam IADL Questionnaire
INTRODUCTION: Detecting functional decline from normal ageing to dementia is
relevant for diagnostic and prognostic purposes. Therefore, the Amsterdam IADL
Questionnaire (A-IADL-Q) was developed: a 70-item proxy-based tool with good
psychometric properties. We aimed to design a short version whilst preserving
its psychometric quality. METHODS: Study partners of subjects (n=1355), ranging
from cognitively normal to dementia subjects, completed the original A-IADL-Q.
We selected the short version items using a stepwise procedure combining
missing data, Item Response Theory and input from respondents and experts. We
investigated internal consistency of the short version as well as concordance
with the original version. To assess its construct validity, we additionally
investigated concordance between the short version and the Mini-Mental State
Examination (MMSE) and Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD). Lastly, we
investigated differences in IADL scores between diagnostic groups across the
dementia spectrum. RESULTS: We selected 30 items covering the entire spectrum
of IADL functioning. Internal consistency (.98) and concordance with the
original version (.97) were very high. Concordance with the MMSE (.72) and DAD
(.87) scores was high. IADL impairment scores increased across the spectrum
from normal cognition to dementia. DISCUSSION: The A-IADL-Q Short Version
(A-IADL-Q-SV) consists of 30 items. The A-IADL-Q-SV has maintained the
psychometric quality of the original A-IADL-Q. As such, it is a concise measure
of functional decline.