Spectral Dynamic Causal Modelling of Resting-State fMRI: Relating
  Effective Brain Connectivity in the Default Mode Network to Genetics
We conduct a novel imaging genetics study with the goal of examining how
effective brain connectivity is related to genetics within the context of
dementia. Our study develops an analysis examining a sample obtained from the
Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative with resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI)
and genetic data obtained from 112 subjects, where each subject is classified
as either cognitively normal (CN), as having mild cognitive impairment (MCI),
or as having Alzheimer's Disease (AD). A Dynamic Causal Model (DCM) is fit to
the rs-fMRI time series in the spectral domain (spectral DCM) in order to
estimate a directed network representing effective brain connectivity within
the default mode network (DMN), a key network commonly known to be active when
the brain is at rest. These networks are then used as a phenotype and related
to a set of genetic markers potentially related to disease using the Bayes
factor, where the set of markers is selected based on a genome-wide association
study. Our exploratory analysis reveals a potential path of aligned connections
within the network being studied forming a path from the medial prefrontal
cortex to the right intraparietal cortex through the left right intraparietal
cortex that is potentially associated with a genetic signal from chromosome 11.
In a separate analysis examining the influence of genetics on disease, this
same genetic signal is selected as potentially associated with the probability
of Alzheimer's Disease using LASSO penalized multinomial logistic regression.
Our analysis serves to motivate a number of further studies with the goal of
replicating our findings in a larger sample size and with the goal of expanding
the network of brain regions included in the network.