Fast Sparsely Synchronized Brain Rhythms in A Scale-Free Neural Network
We consider a directed Barab\'{a}si-Albert scale-free network model with
symmetric preferential attachment with the same in- and out-degrees, and study
emergence of sparsely synchronized rhythms for a fixed attachment degree in an
inhibitory population of fast spiking Izhikevich interneurons. For a study on
the fast sparsely synchronized rhythms, we fix $J$ (synaptic inhibition
strength) at a sufficiently large value, and investigate the population states
by increasing $D$ (noise intensity). For small $D$, full synchronization with
the same population-rhythm frequency $f_p$ and mean firing rate (MFR) $f_i$ of
individual neurons occurs, while for sufficiently large $D$ partial
synchronization with $f_p > {\langle f_i \rangle}$ ($\langle f_i \rangle$:
ensemble-averaged MFR) appears due to intermittent discharge of individual
neurons; particularly, the case of $f_p > 4 {\langle f_i \rangle}$ is referred
to as sparse synchronization. Only for the partial and sparse synchronization,
MFRs and contributions of individual neuronal dynamics to population
synchronization change depending on their degrees, unlike the case of full
synchronization. Consequently, dynamics of individual neurons reveal the
inhomogeneous network structure for the case of partial and sparse
synchronization, which is in contrast to the case of statistically homogeneous
random graphs and small-world networks. Finally, we investigate the effect of
network architecture on sparse synchronization in the following three cases:
(1) variation in the degree of symmetric attachment (2) asymmetric preferential
attachment of new nodes with different in- and out-degrees (3) preferential
attachment between pre-existing nodes (without addition of new nodes). In these
three cases, both relation between network topology and sparse synchronization
and contributions of individual dynamics to the sparse synchronization are
discussed.