Association of night-waking and inattention/hyperactivity symptoms
  trajectories in preschool-aged children
Objective: To study the longitudinal associations between
inattention/hyperactivity symptoms and night-waking in preschool-years, in
light of their joint evolution.Study design: Within the French birth-cohort
study EDEN, repeated measures of 1342 children's night-waking and
inattention/hyperactivity symptoms were collected at age 2, 3 and 5-6 through
questionnaires. Trajectories were computed using group-based modeling. Logistic
regressions, adjusted for confounding factors, were used to measure the
association between trajectories and to determine risk factors for belonging to
the identified joint trajectories.Results: Two night-waking trajectories were
observed, 20% of the children had a trajectory of `common night-waking', and
80% a trajectory of `rare night-waking'. The children were distributed in three
inattention/hyperactivity trajectories, a low (47%), medium (40%) and high one
(13%). Both night-waking and inattention/hyperactivity trajectories showed
persistence of difficulties in preschool years. The risk of presenting a high
inattention/hyperactivity trajectory compared to a low one was of
4.19[2.68-6.53] for common night-wakers, compared to rare night-wakers. Factors
associated with joint trajectories were parent's education level and history of
childhood behavioral problems, and the child's gender, night-sleep duration and
collective care at 2 years of age.Conclusion: Results suggest that children
presenting behavioral difficulties would benefit from a systematic
investigation of their sleep quality and conversely.