Color induction in equiluminant flashed stimuli
Color induction is the influence of the surrounding color (inducer) on the
perceived color of a central region. There are two different types of color
induction: color contrast (the color of the central region shifts away from
that of the inducer) and color assimilation (the color shifts towards the color
of the inducer). Several studies on these effects used uniform and striped
surrounds, reporting color contrast and color assimilation, respectively. Other
authors (Kaneko and Murakami, J Vision, 2012) studied color induction using
flashed uniform surrounds, reporting that the contrast was higher for shorter
flash duration. Extending their work, we present new psychophysical results
using both flashed and static (i.e., non-flashed) equiluminant stimuli for both
striped and uniform surround. Similarly to them, for uniform surround stimuli
we observed color contrast, but we did not obtain the maximum contrast for the
shortest (10 ms) flashed stimuli, but for 40 ms. We only observed this maximum
contrast for red, green and lime inducers, while for a purple inducer we
obtained an asymptotic profile along flash duration. For striped stimuli, we
observed color assimilation only for the static (infinite flash duration)
red-green surround inducers (red 1st inducer, green 2nd inducer). For the other
inducers' configurations, we observed color contrast or no induction. Since
other works showed that non-equiluminant striped static stimuli induce color
assimilation, our results also suggest that luminance differences could be a
key factor to induce it.