Early Detection of Mental Stress Using Advanced Neuroimaging and
  Artificial Intelligence
While different neuroimaging modalities have been proposed to detect mental
stress, each modality experiences certain limitations. This study proposed
novel approaches to detect stress based on fusion of EEG and fNIRS signals in
the feature-level using joint independent component analysis (jICA) and
canonical correlation analysis method (CCA) and predected the level of stress
using machine-learning approach. The jICA and CCA were then developed to
combine the features to detect mental stress. The jICA fusion scheme discovers
relationships between modalities by utilizing ICA to identify sources from each
modality that modulate in the same way across subjects. The CCA fuse
information from two sets of features to discover the associations across
modalities and to ultimately estimate the sources responsible for these
associations. The study further explored the functional connectivity (FC) and
evaluated the performance of the fusion methods based on their classification
performance and compared it with the result obtained by each individual
modality. The jICA fusion technique significantly improved the classification
accuracy, sensitivity and specificity on average by +3.46% compared to the EEG
and +11.13% compared to the fNIRS. Similarly, CCA method improved the
classification accuracy, sensitivity and specificity on average by +8.56%
compared to the EEG and +13.03% compared to the fNIRS, respectively. The
overall performance of the proposed fusion methods significantly improved the
detection rate of mental stress, p<0.05. The FC significantly reduced under
stress and suggested EEG and fNIRS as a potential biomarker of stress.