An intracellular calcium frequency code model extended to the Riemann
  zeta function
We have used the Nernst chemical potential treatment to couple the time
domains of sodium and calcium ion channel opening and closing rates to the
spatial domain of the diffusing waves of the travelling calcium ions inside
single cells. The model is plausibly evolvable with respect to the origins of
the molecular components and the scaling of the system from simple cells to
neurons. The mixed chemical potentials are calculated by summing the
concentrations or particle numbers of the two constituent ions which are pure
numbers and thus dimensionless. Chemical potentials are true thermodynamic free
Gibbs/Fermi energies and the forces acting on chemical flows are calculated
from the natural logarithms of the particle numbers or their concentrations.
The mixed chemical potential is converted to the time domain of an action
potential by assuming that the injection of calcium ions accelerates
depolarization in direct proportion to the amplitude of the total charge
contribution of the calcium pulse. We assert that the natural logarithm of the
real component of the imaginary term of any Riemann zeta zero corresponds to an
instantaneous calcium potential. In principle, in a physiologically plausible
fashion, the first few thousand Riemann zeta-zeros can be encoded on this
chemical scale manifested as regulated step-changes in the amplitudes of
naturally occurring calcium current transients. We show that pairs of Zn
channels can form Dirac fences which encode the logarithmic spacings and summed
amplitudes of any pair of Riemann zeros. Remarkably the beat frequencies of the
pairings of the early frequency terms overlap the naturally occurring frequency
modes in vertebrate brains. The equation for the time domain in the biological
model has a similar form to the Riemann zeta function on the half-plane and
mimics analytical continuation on the complex plane.