Prediction of treatment outcome for autism from structure of the brain
  based on sure independence screening
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder, and
behavioral treatment interventions have shown promise for young children with
ASD. However, there is limited progress in understanding the effect of each
type of treatment. In this project, we aim to detect structural changes in the
brain after treatment and select structural features associated with treatment
outcomes. The difficulty in building large databases of patients who have
received specific treatments and the high dimensionality of medical image
analysis problems are the challenges in this work. To select predictive
features and build accurate models, we use the sure independence screening
(SIS) method. SIS is a theoretically and empirically validated method for
ultra-high dimensional general linear models, and it achieves both predictive
accuracy and correct feature selection by iterative feature selection. Compared
with step-wise feature selection methods, SIS removes multiple features in each
iteration and is computationally efficient. Compared with other linear models
such as elastic-net regression, support vector regression (SVR) and partial
least squares regression (PSLR), SIS achieves higher accuracy. We validated the
superior performance of SIS in various experiments: First, we extract brain
structural features from FreeSurfer, including cortical thickness, surface
area, mean curvature and cortical volume. Next, we predict different measures
of treatment outcomes based on structural features. We show that SIS achieves
the highest correlation between prediction and measurements in all tasks.
Furthermore, we report regions selected by SIS as biomarkers for ASD.