WAND: A 128-channel, closed-loop, wireless artifact-free neuromodulation
  device
Closed-loop neuromodulation systems aim to treat a variety of neurological
conditions by dynamically delivering and adjusting therapeutic electrical
stimulation in response to a patient's neural state, recorded in real-time.
Existing systems are limited by low channel counts, lack of algorithmic
flexibility, and distortion of recorded signals from large, persistent
stimulation artifacts. Here, we describe a device that enables new research
applications requiring high-throughput data streaming, low-latency biosignal
processing, and truly simultaneous sensing and stimulation. The Wireless
Artifact-free Neuromodulation Device (WAND) is a miniaturized, wireless neural
interface capable of recording and stimulating on 128 channels with on-board
processing to fully cancel stimulation artifacts, detect neural biomarkers, and
automatically adjust stimulation parameters in a closed-loop fashion. It
combines custom application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), an on-board
FPGA, and a low-power bidirectional radio. We validate wireless, long-term
recordings of local field potentials (LFP) and real-time cancellation of
stimulation artifacts in a behaving nonhuman primate (NHP). We use WAND to
demonstrate a closed-loop stimulation paradigm to disrupt movement preparatory
activity during a delayed-reach task in a NHP in vivo. This wireless device,
leveraging custom ASICs for both neural recording and electrical stimulation
modalities, makes possible a neural interface platform technology to
significantly advance both neuroscientific discovery and preclinical
investigations of stimulation-based therapeutic interventions.