Stimulus competition by inhibitory interference
When two stimuli are present in the receptive field of a V4 neuron, the
firing rate response is between the weakest and strongest response elicited by
each of the stimuli alone (Reynolds et al, 1999, Journal of Neuroscience
19:1736-1753). When attention is directed towards the stimulus eliciting the
strongest response (the preferred stimulus), the response to the pair is
increased, whereas the response decreases when attention is directed to the
other stimulus (the poor stimulus). These experimental results were reproduced
in a model of a V4 neuron under the assumption that attention modulates the
activity of local interneuron networks. The V4 model neuron received
stimulus-specific asynchronous excitation from V2 and synchronous inhibitory
inputs from two local interneuron networks in V4. Each interneuron network was
driven by stimulus-specific excitatory inputs from V2 and was modulated by a
projection from the frontal eye fields. Stimulus competition was present
because of a delay in arrival time of synchronous volleys from each interneuron
network. For small delays, the firing rate was close to the rate elicited by
the preferred stimulus alone, whereas for larger delays it approached the
firing rate of the poor stimulus. When either stimulus was presented alone the
neuron's response was not altered by the change in delay. The model suggests
that top-down attention biases the competition between V2 columns for control
of V4 neurons by changing the relative timing of inhibition rather than by
changes in the degree of synchrony of interneuron networks. The mechanism
proposed here for attentional modulation of firing rate - gain modulation by
inhibitory interference - is likely to have more general applicability to
cortical information processing.