A Computational Role for Astrocytes in Memory
The neuronal paradigm of studying the brain has left us with major
limitations in both our understanding of how neurons process information to
achieve biological intelligence and how such knowledge can be translated into
artificial intelligence. Overturning our fundamental assumptions of how the
brain works, the recent exploration of glia is revealing that these
long-neglected brain cells, and in particular astrocytes, dynamically
contribute to and regulate neuronal activity by interacting with neurons at the
synaptic level. Following recent glial-specific in vivo calcium imaging
studies, we built a biologically-constrained model of an astrocytic-neural
network and analyzed the dynamics of the astrocyte-neural interaction. We show
that the inclusion of astrocytes was sufficient to trigger transitions between
learned states in a Hopfield-type model of memory. The timing of the
transitions was governed by the dynamics of the calcium-dependent slow-currents
in the astrocytic processes ensheathing the synapses. Our results align with
calcium imaging studies that in the last several years have revealed that
astrocytes respond to neural activity on a much faster timescale than
previously believed, and provide a possible computational mechanism for the
long-suspected role of astrocytes in learning and memory. Overall, this paper
aims to steer and expand our concept of information processing in the brain to
include non-neuronal elements.