Analysis of pacemaker activity in a two-component model of some
  brainstem neurons
Serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic brainstem (including midbrain)
neurons, often exhibit spontaneous and fairly regular spiking with frequencies
of order a few Hz, though dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons only exhibit
such pacemaker-type activity in vitro or in vivo under special conditions.
  A large number of ion channel types contribute to such spiking so that
detailed modeling of spike generation leads to the requirement of solving very
large systems of differential equations. It is useful to have simplified
mathematical models of spiking in such neurons so that, for example, features
of inputs and output spike trains can be incorporated including stochastic
effects for possible use in network models.
  In this article we investigate a simple two-component conductance-based model
of the Hodgkin-Huxley type. Solutions are computed numerically and with
suitably chosen parameters mimic features of pacemaker-type spiking in the
above types of neurons. The effects of varying parameters is investigated in
detail, it being found that there is extreme sensitivity to eight of them.
Transitions from non-spiking to spiking are examined for two of these, the
half-activation potential for an activation variable and the added
(depolarizing) current and contrasted with the behavior of the classical
Hodgkin-Huxley system. The plateaux levels between spikes can be adjusted, by
changing a set of voltage parameters, to agree with experimental observations.
Experiment has shown that in, in vivo, dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons'
pacemaker activity can be induced by the removal of excitatory inputs or the
introduction of inhibitory ones. These properties are confirmed by mimicking
opposite such changes in the model, which resulted in a change from pacemaker
activity to bursting-type phenomena.