Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease: a survey of experiences
  perceived by recipients and carers
Perceived outcomes from DBS for PD were sampled for 52 cases by surveying 46
DBS recipients and 45 carers. Post-DBS experience ranged from 10-129 months.
There were significant variations in perceived outcomes over time. In some
cases extreme variations were experienced as a consequence of hardware and
other problems requiring additional surgery. Nevertheless most in this group
went on to ultimately report good outcomes. Holistic assessments of experiences
were largely positive, but in some cases there were significant differences in
the assessments by recipients and carers. For assessments valid at the time of
interview 26 recipients and 17 carers commented that the outcome was good. A
second group of 11 recipients and 12 carers reported mixed results but overall
a positive experience. A third group of 6 recipients and 8 carers reported
negatively about the outcomes. Many considered overall quality of life much
better following DBS, more so recipients than carers. Post-DBS experiences of
both motor and non-motor symptoms varied greatly between cases. When
considering the average of participant responses, tremor and dyskinesias were
considered better or much better following DBS, with benefits sustained with
time. 12 months after DBS many symptoms were on average considered the same or
better after DBS, but for many, some decline in benefits was apparent over this
period. Some symptoms were reported to show no improvement, or be worse
following DBS. 12 months after the procedure the average of participant
responses indicated that symptoms including speech, postural stability,
swallowing, handwriting, cognitive function and incontinence were worse.