Visual response properties of MSTd emerge from a sparse population code
Neurons in the dorsal subregion of the medial superior temporal (MSTd) area
respond to large, complex patterns of retinal flow, implying a role in the
analysis of self-motion. Some neurons are selective for the expanding radial
motion that occurs as an observer moves through the environment ("heading"),
and computational models can account for this finding. However, ample evidence
suggests that MSTd neurons may exhibit a continuum of visual response
selectivity to large-field motion stimuli, but the underlying computational
principles by which these response properties are derived remain poorly
understood. Here we describe a computational model of MSTd based on the
hypothesis that neurons in MSTd efficiently encode the continuum of large-field
retinal flow patterns on the basis of inputs received from neurons in MT, with
receptive fields that resemble basis vectors recovered with nonnegative matrix
factorization (NMF). These assumptions are sufficient to quantitatively
simulate neurophysiological response properties of MSTd cells such as radial,
circular, and spiral motion tuning, suggesting that these properties might
simply be a by-product of MSTd neurons performing dimensionality reduction on
their inputs. At the population level, model MSTd accurately predicts heading
using a sparse distributed code, consistent with the idea that biological MSTd
might operate in a sparseness regime well-suited to efficiently encode a number
of self-motion variables. The present work provides an alternative to the
template-model view of MSTd, and offers a biologically plausible account of the
receptive field structure across a wide range of visual response properties in
MSTd.