Noisy network attractor models for transitions between EEG microstates
The brain is intrinsically organized into large-scale networks that
constantly re-organize on multiple timescales, even when the brain is at rest.
The timing of these dynamics is crucial for sensation, perception, cognition
and ultimately consciousness, but the underlying dynamics governing the
constant reorganization and switching between networks are not yet well
understood. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and
electroencephalography (EEG) provide anatomical and temporal information about
the resting-state networks (RSNs), respectively. EEG microstates are brief
periods of stable scalp topography, and four distinct configurations with
characteristic switching patterns between them are reliably identified at rest.
Microstates have been identified as the electrophysiological correlate of
fMRI-defined RSNs, this link could be established because EEG microstate
sequences are scale-free and have long-range temporal correlations. This
property is crucial for any approach to model EEG microstates. This paper
proposes a novel modeling approach for microstates: we consider nonlinear
stochastic differential equations (SDEs) that exhibit a noisy network attractor
between nodes that represent the microstates. Using a single layer network
between four states, we can reproduce the transition probabilities between
microstates but not the heavy tailed residence time distributions. Introducing
a two layer network with a hidden layer gives the flexibility to capture these
heavy tails and their long-range temporal correlations. We fit these models to
capture the statistical properties of microstate sequences from EEG data
recorded inside and outside the MRI scanner and show that the processing
required to separate the EEG signal from the fMRI machine noise results in a
loss of information which is reflected in differences in the long tail of the
dwell-time distributions.