Odor response features of projection neurons and local interneurons in
  the honeybee antennal lobe
Local computation in microcircuits is an essential feature of distributed
information processing in vertebrate and invertebrate brains. The insect
antennal lobe represents a spatially confined local network that processes
high-dimensional and redundant peripheral input to compute an efficient odor
code. Social insects can rely on a particularly rich olfactory receptor
repertoire and they exhibit complex odor-guided behaviors. This corresponds
with a high anatomical complexity of their AL network. In the honeybee, a large
number of glomeruli that receive sensory input are interconnected by a dense
network of local interneurons (LNs). Uniglomerular projection neurons (PNs)
integrate sensory and recurrent network input into an efficient spatio-temporal
odor code. To investigate the specific computational roles of LNs and PNs we
measured eleven features of sub- and suprathreshold single cell responses to in
vivo odor stimulation. Using a semi-supervised cluster analysis we identified a
combination of five characteristic features that enabled the accurate
separation of morphologically identified LNs and PNs. The two clusters differed
significantly in all five features. In the absence of stimulation PNs showed a
higher subthreshold activation, assumed higher peak response rates and more
regular spiking pattern. LNs reacted considerably faster to the onset of a
stimulus and their responses were more reliable across stimulus repetitions. We
discuss possible mechanisms that can explain our results, and we interpret
cell-type specific characteristics with respect to their functional relevance.