Association Between Intelligence and Cortical Thickness in Adolescents:
  Evidence from the ABCD Study
The relationship between the intelligence and brain morphology is warmly
concerned in cognitive field. General intelligence can be defined as the
weighted sum of fluid and crystallized intelligence. Fluid abilities depend on
genes and genes expression and less depend on experiences. Thus, these
abilities develop rapidly during childhood, usually peaking in adulthood and
then decreasing with age. Crystallized abilities, in contrast, more depend on
experiences. However, the biological foundation of human intelligence remains
to be revealed. In this study, by utilizing the structural brain magnetic
resonance imaging from a large sample of the Adolescent Brain Cognitive
Development Study, the largest cohort focusing in brain development and child
healthy in the United States, we aim to identify the association between
intelligence and cortical thickness in adolescents both from commonality and
individuality. We use ABCD data set around 11,000 samples cortical thickness
and cognitive scores to analysis their association, both from mean and
dispersion aspects. Using double generalized linear model, the mean model
results is almost the same as generalized linear model, we found crystallized
intelligence are more associated with cortical thickness than fluid
intelligence in adolescents around 10 years old. We found the frontal gyri
regions thickness are negative with intelligence, which is consistent with
previous study.Intelligence appears to be associated with widespread increased
mean differences and decreased heterogeneity in cortical thickness. The results
seem to support the notion that cognitive function has high heterogeneity.
Higher cognitive abilities have lower heterogeneity, and lower cognitive
abilities has higher heterogeneity.