Network Modeling of Short Over-Dispersed Spike-Counts: A Hierarchical
  Parametric Empirical Bayes Framework
Accurate statistical models of neural spike responses can characterize the
information carried by neural populations. Yet, challenges in recording at the
level of individual neurons commonly results in relatively limited samples of
spike counts, which can lead to model overfitting. Moreover, current models
assume spike counts to be Poisson-distributed, which ignores the fact that many
neurons demonstrate over-dispersed spiking behavior. The Negative Binomial
Generalized Linear Model (NB-GLM) provides a powerful tool for modeling
over-dispersed spike counts. However, maximum likelihood based standard NB-GLM
leads to unstable and inaccurate parameter estimations. Thus, we propose a
hierarchical parametric empirical Bayes method for estimating the parameters of
the NB-GLM. Our method integrates Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) and
empirical Bayes theory to: (1) effectively capture over-dispersion nature of
spike counts from retinal ganglion neural responses; (2) significantly reduce
mean square error of parameter estimations when compared to maximum likelihood
based method for NB-GLMs; (3) provide an efficient alternative to fully
Bayesian inference with low computational cost for hierarchical models; and (4)
give insightful findings on both neural interactions and spiking behaviors of
real retina cells. We apply our approach to study both simulated data and
experimental neural data from the retina. The simulation results indicate the
new framework can efficiently and accurately retrieve the weights of functional
connections among neural populations and predict mean spike counts. The results
from the retinal datasets demonstrate the proposed method outperforms both
standard Poisson and Negative Binomial GLMs in terms of the predictive
log-likelihood of held-out data.