9.5 Hypotheses on the Informational Structure of Life which are
  Multi-scale, Human-readable, Provocative, Coherent, Plausible, Falsifiable,
  and Actionable
This document has an unorthodox structure to accomplish an unorthodox goal:
presenting the scaffolding for a zero-parameter Unified Theory of Life inside
several dozen pages. Ideally, that length is short enough to be understood in a
few hours, yet complete and principled enough to unfold into solutions to
civilization's most urgent problem: the accelerating de-calibration of fluid
human brains by compelling digitized signals. The stakes of understanding
humans as informational beings are huge. Without drastic changes, crucial human
functionality will vanish in a generation. Fortunately, the cures are cheap and
easy if promoted properly. These ten hypotheses re-present in more abstract,
encapsulated form a Framework published a few months ago in a reputable
peer-reviewed journal, which concluded that human sensory systems must be
accorded data of the same quality as the data which already trains algorithmic
intelligences. While the lack of experiment-grade detail might make these
hypotheses seem "unscientific," in compensation the breadth of this Framework
ought to provide the virtues of theory: clarity, simplicity, coherence, and
self-evidence. Five of the hypotheses span humanity's current problem-space,
and five a possible solution space. They are: H1.0 Stably evolving
distributions must balance themselves between narrowing and broadening H2.0
Stabilization and homeostasis are fragile in multiple ways H3.0 Representing
spacetime requires micro-timing and mega-assumptions H4.0 When in doubt, ping!
H5.0 Mediated communication becomes infected with pinging H6.0 If scaling and
incentives are the problems, then entropy and affection are the solutions H7.0
"Paleo everything but violence" provides sensorimotor nutrition H8.0 Humans
evolved to resonate ecstatically H9.0 Symmetric spinal health syndrome H9.5
Helping the irresistible force beat the immovable object