A Static Distributed-parameter Circuit Model Explains Electrical
  Stimulation on the Neuromuscular System
Finite Element Modeling (FEM) has been widely used to model the electric
field distribution, to study the interaction between stimulation electrodes and
neural tissue. However, due to the insufficient computational capability to
represent neural tissue down to an atom-level, the existing FEM fails to model
the real electric field that is perpendicular to neuron membrane to initiate an
action potential. Thus, to reveal the real electrode-tissue interactions, we
developed a circuit to model transmembrane voltage waveforms. Here, we show a
distributed-parameter circuit model to systematically study how
electrode-tissue interaction is affected by electrode position, input current
waveform, and biological structures in the neuromuscular system. Our model
explains and predicts various phenomena in neuromuscular stimulation, guides
new stimulation electrode and method design, and more importantly, facilitates
a fundamental understanding of the physical process during electrode-tissue
interaction. In our model, myelin is assumed to be inductive. The voltage
waveform resonance caused by this inductive myelin accounts for the much lower
stimulation threshold to activate motoneurons than muscle fibers, which is
observed with in vivo measurements. These findings confirmed the feasibility of
studying electrode-tissue interaction using a proper distributed-parameter
circuit. Our current application on the neuromuscular system also raises the
possibility that this distributed-parameter circuit model could potentially be
applied to study other neural tissues, including the Peripheral Nervous System
(PNS) and the Central Nervous System (CNS).