A community-based transcriptomics classification and nomenclature of
  neocortical cell types
To understand the function of cortical circuits it is necessary to classify
their underlying cellular diversity. Traditional attempts based on comparing
anatomical or physiological features of neurons and glia, while productive,
have not resulted in a unified taxonomy of neural cell types. The recent
development of single-cell transcriptomics has enabled, for the first time,
systematic high-throughput profiling of large numbers of cortical cells and the
generation of datasets that hold the promise of being complete, accurate and
permanent. Statistical analyses of these data have revealed the existence of
clear clusters, many of which correspond to cell types defined by traditional
criteria, and which are conserved across cortical areas and species. To
capitalize on these innovations and advance the field, we, the Copenhagen
Convention Group, propose the community adopts a transcriptome-based taxonomy
of the cell types in the adult mammalian neocortex. This core classification
should be ontological, hierarchical and use a standardized nomenclature. It
should be configured to flexibly incorporate new data from multiple approaches,
developmental stages and a growing number of species, enabling improvement and
revision of the classification. This community-based strategy could serve as a
common foundation for future detailed analysis and reverse engineering of
cortical circuits and serve as an example for cell type classification in other
parts of the nervous system and other organs.