A computational investigation of the relationships between single-neuron
  and network dynamics in the cerebral cortex
Functions of brain areas in complex animals are believed to rely on the
dynamics of networks of neurons rather than on single neurons. On the other
hand, the network dynamics reflect and arise from the integration and
coordination of the activity of populations of single neurons. Understanding
how single-neurons and neural-circuits dynamics complement each other to
produce brain functions is thus of paramount importance. LFPs and EEGs are good
indicators of the dynamics of mesoscopic and macroscopic populations of
neurons, while microscopic-level activities can be documented by measuring the
membrane potential, the synaptic currents or the spiking activity of individual
neurons. In this thesis we develop mathematical modelling and mathematical
analysis tools that can help the interpretation of joint measures of neural
activity at microscopic and mesoscopic or macroscopic scales. In particular, we
develop network models of recurrent cortical circuits that can clarify the
impact of several aspects of single-neuron (i.e., microscopic-level) dynamics
on the activity of the whole neural population (as measured by LFP). We then
develop statistical tools to characterize the relationship between the action
potential firing of single neurons and mass signals. We apply these latter
analysis techniques to joint recordings of the firing activity of individual
cell-type identified neurons and mesoscopic (i.e., LFP) and macroscopic (i.e.,
EEG) signals in the mouse neocortex. We identified several general aspects of
the relationship between cell-specific neural firing and mass circuit activity,
providing for example general and robust mathematical rules which infer
single-neuron firing activity from mass measures such as the LFP and the EEG.