Adaptive stimulus design for dynamic recurrent neural network models
We present a theoretical application of an optimal experiment design (OED)
methodology to the development of mathematical models to describe the
stimulus-response relationship of sensory neurons. Although there are a few
related studies in the computational neuroscience literature on this topic,
most of them are either involving non-linear static maps or simple linear
filters cascaded to a static non-linearity. Although the linear filters might
be appropriate to demonstrate some aspects of neural processes, the high level
of non-linearity in the nature of the stimulus-response data may render them
inadequate. In addition, modelling by a static non-linear input - output map
may mask important dynamical (time-dependent) features in the response data.
Due to all those facts a non-linear continuous time dynamic recurrent neural
network that models the excitatory and inhibitory membrane potential dynamics
is preferred. The main goal of this research is to estimate the parametric
details of this model from the available stimulus-response data. In order to
design an efficient estimator an optimal experiment design scheme is proposed
which computes a pre-shaped stimulus to maximize a certain measure of Fisher
Information Matrix. This measure depends on the estimated values of the
parameters in the current step and the optimal stimuli are used in a maximum
likelihood estimation procedure to find an estimate of the network parameters.
This process works as a loop until a reasonable convergence occurs. The
response data is discontinuous as it is composed of the neural spiking instants
which is assumed to obey the Poisson statistical distribution. Thus the
likelihood functions depend on the Poisson statistics. In order to validate the
approach and evaluate its performance, a comparison with another approach on
estimation based on randomly generated stimuli is also presented.