Attentional modulation of firing rate and synchrony in a model cortical
  network
When attention is directed into the receptive field of a V4 neuron, its
contrast response curve is shifted to lower contrast values (Reynolds et al,
2000, Neuron 26:703). Attention also increases the coherence between neurons
responding to the same stimulus (Fries et al, 2001, Science 291:1560). We
studied how the firing rate and synchrony of a densely interconnected cortical
network varied with contrast and how they were modulated by attention. We found
that an increased driving current to the excitatory neurons increased the
overall firing rate of the network, whereas variation of the driving current to
inhibitory neurons modulated the synchrony of the network. We explain the
synchrony modulation in terms of a locking phenomenon during which the ratio of
excitatory to inhibitory firing rates is approximately constant for a range of
driving current values. We explored the hypothesis that contrast is represented
primarily as a drive to the excitatory neurons, whereas attention corresponds
to a reduction in driving current to the inhibitory neurons. Using this
hypothesis, the model reproduces the following experimental observations: (1)
the firing rate of the excitatory neurons increases with contrast; (2) for high
contrast stimuli, the firing rate saturates and the network synchronizes; (3)
attention shifts the contrast response curve to lower contrast values; (4)
attention leads to stronger synchronization that starts at a lower value of the
contrast compared with the attend-away condition. In addition, it predicts that
attention increases the delay between the inhibitory and excitatory synchronous
volleys produced by the network, allowing the stimulus to recruit more
downstream neurons.