How to Direct the Edges of the Connectomes: Dynamics of the Consensus
  Connectomes and the Development of the Connections in the Human Brain
The human connectome is the object of an intensive research today. In these
graphs, the vertices correspond to the small areas of the gray matter, and two
vertices are connected by an edge, if a diffusion-MRI based workflow finds
connections between those areas. One main question of the field is discovering
the directions of the edges. In a previous work we have reported the
construction of the Budapest Reference Connectome Server
http://connectome.pitgroup.org from the data recorded in the Human Connectome
Project of the NIH. After the server had been published, we recognized a
surprising and unforeseen property of it: The server can generate the
braingraph of connections that are present in at least $k$ graphs out of the
418, for any value of $k=1,2,...,418$. When the value of $k$ is changed from
$k=418$ through 1 by moving a slider at the webserver from right to left, more
and more edges appear in the consensus graph. The astonishing observation is
that the appearance of the new edges is not random: it is similar to a growing
tree. We hypothesize that this movement of the slider in the webserver may copy
the development of the connections in the human brain in the following sense:
the connections that are present in all subjects are the oldest ones, and those
that are present in a decreasing fraction of subjects are gradually the newer
connections in the individual brain development. An animation on the phenomenon
is available at https://youtu.be/EnWwIf_HNjw. Based on this hypothesis, we can
assign directions to the edges of the connectome as follows: Let $G_i$ denote
the consensus connectome where each edge is present in at least $i$ graphs.
Suppose that vertex $v$ is isolated in $G_{k+1}$, and becomes connected to a
vertex $u$ in $G_k$, where $u$ was connected to other vertices already in
$G_{k+1}$. Then we direct this $(v,u)$ edge from $v$ to $u$.