Electrophysiological indicators of gesture perception
Background: While there has been abundant research concerning neurological
responses to gesture generation, the time course of gesture processing is not
well understood. Specifically, it is not clear if or how particular
characteristics within the kinematic execution of gestures capture attention
and aid in the classification of gestures with communicative intent. If indeed
key features of gestures with perceptual saliency exist, such features could
help form the basis of a compact representation of the gestures in memory.
Methods: This study used a set of available gesture videos as stimuli. The
timing for salient features of performed gestures was determined by isolating
inflection points in the hands' motion trajectories. Participants passively
viewed the gesture videos while continuous EEG data was collected. We focused
on mu oscillations (10 Hz) and used linear regression to test for associations
between the timing of mu oscillations and inflection points in motion
trajectories. Results: Peaks in the EEG signals at central and occipital
electrodes were used to isolate the salient events within each gesture. EEG
power oscillations were detected 343 and 400ms on average after inflection
points at occipital and central electrodes, respectively. A regression model
showed that inflection points in the motion trajectories strongly predicted
subsequent mu oscillations (R^2=0.961, p<.01). Conclusion: The results suggest
that coordinated activity in the visual and motor cortices are highly
correlated with key motion components within gesture trajectories. These points
may be associated with neural signatures used to encode gestures in memory for
later identification and even recognition.