Network Controllability in the IFG Relates to Controlled Language
  Variability and Susceptibility to TMS
In language production, humans are confronted with considerable word
selection demands. Often, we must select a word from among similar, acceptable,
and competing alternative words in order to construct a sentence that conveys
an intended meaning. In recent years, the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG)
has been identified as critical to this ability. Despite a recent emphasis on
network approaches to understanding language, how the LIFG interacts with the
brain's complex networks to facilitate controlled language performance remains
unknown. Here, we take a novel approach to understand word selection as a
network control process in the brain. Using an anatomical brain network derived
from high-resolution diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), we computed network
controllability underlying the site of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the
LIFG between administrations of two word selection tasks. We find that a
statistic that quantifies the LIFG's theoretically predicted control of
difficult-to-reach states explains vulnerability to TMS in language tasks that
vary in response (cognitive control) demands: open-response (word generation)
vs. closed-response (number naming) tasks. Moreover, we find that a statistic
that quantifies the LIFG's theoretically predicted control of communication
across modules in the human connectome explains TMS-induced changes in
open-response language task performance only. These findings establish a link
between network controllability, cognitive function, and TMS effects.