Reconfiguration of Brain Network between Resting-state and Oddball
  Paradigm
The oddball paradigm is widely applied to the investigation of multiple
cognitive functions. Prior studies have explored the cortical oscillation and
power spectral differing from the resting-state conduction to oddball paradigm,
but whether brain networks existing the significant difference is still
unclear. Our study addressed how the brain reconfigures its architecture from a
resting-state condition (i.e., baseline) to P300 stimulus task in the visual
oddball paradigm. In this study, electroencephalogram (EEG) datasets were
collected from 24 postgraduate students, who were required to only mentally
count the number of target stimulus; afterwards the functional EEG networks
constructed in different frequency bands were compared between baseline and
oddball task conditions to evaluate the reconfiguration of functional network
in the brain. Compared to the baseline, our results showed the significantly (p
< 0.05) enhanced delta/theta EEG connectivity and decreased alpha default mode
network in the progress of brain reconfiguration to the P300 task. Furthermore,
the reconfigured coupling strengths were demonstrated to relate to P300
amplitudes, which were then regarded as input features to train a classifier to
differentiate the high and low P300 amplitudes groups with an accuracy of
77.78%. The findings of our study help us to understand the changes of
functional brain connectivity from resting-state to oddball stimulus task, and
the reconfigured network pattern has the potential for the selection of good
subjects for P300-based brain- computer interface.