Scale-Free Exponents of Resting State provide a Biomarker for Typical
  and Atypical Brain Activity
Scale-free networks (SFN) arise from simple growth processes, which can
encourage efficient, centralized and fault tolerant communication (1). Recently
its been shown that stable network hub structure is governed by a phase
transition at exponents (>2.0) causing a dramatic change in network structure
including a loss of global connectivity, an increasing minimum dominating node
set, and a shift towards increasing connectivity growth compared to node
growth. Is this SFN shift identifiable in atypical brain activity? The Pareto
Distribution (P(D)~D^-\b{eta}) on the hub Degree (D) is a signature of
scale-free networks. During resting-state, we assess Degree exponents across a
large range of neurotypical and atypical subjects. We use graph complexity
theory to provide a predictive theory of the brain network structure. Results.
We show that neurotypical resting-state fMRI brain activity possess scale-free
Pareto exponents (1.8 se .01) in a single individual scanned over 66 days as
well as in 60 different individuals (1.8 se .02). We also show that 60
individuals with Autistic Spectrum Disorder, and 60 individuals with
Schizophrenia have significantly higher (>2.0) scale-free exponents (2.4 se
.03, 2.3 se .04), indicating more fractionated and less controllable dynamics
in the brain networks revealed in resting state. Finally we show that the
exponent values vary with phenotypic measures of atypical disease severity
indicating that the global topology of the network itself can provide specific
diagnostic biomarkers for atypical brain activity.