Dynamical Responses to External Stimuli for Both Cases of Excitatory and
  Inhibitory Synchronization in A Complex Neuronal Network
For studying how dynamical responses to external stimuli depend on the
synaptic-coupling type, we consider two types of excitatory and inhibitory
synchronization (i.e., synchronization via synaptic excitation and inhibition)
in complex small-world networks of excitatory regular spiking (RS) pyramidal
neurons and inhibitory fast spiking (FS) interneurons. For both cases of
excitatory and inhibitory synchronization, effects of synaptic couplings on
dynamical responses to external time-periodic stimuli $S(t)$ (applied to a
fraction of neurons) are investigated by varying the driving amplitude $A$ of
$S(t)$. Stimulated neurons are phase-locked to external stimuli for both cases
of excitatory and inhibitory couplings. On the other hand, the stimulation
effect on non-stimulated neurons depends on the type of synaptic coupling. The
external stimulus $S(t)$ makes a constructive effect on excitatory
non-stimulated RS neurons (i.e., it causes external phase lockings in the
non-stimulated sub-population), while $S(t)$ makes a destructive effect on
inhibitory non-stimulated FS interneurons (i.e., it breaks up original
inhibitory synchronization in the non-stimulated sub-population). As results of
these different effects of $S(t)$, the type and degree of dynamical response
(e.g., synchronization enhancement or suppression), characterized by the
dynamical response factor $D_f$ (given by the ratio of synchronization degree
in the presence and absence of stimulus), are found to vary in a distinctly
different way, depending on the synaptic-coupling type. Furthermore, we also
measure the matching degree between the dynamics of the two sub-populations of
stimulated and non-stimulated neurons in terms of a "cross-correlation" measure
$M_c$. With increasing $A$, based on $M_c$, we discuss the cross-correlations
between the two sub-populations, affecting the dynamical responses to $S(t)$.