Brain Neurological Constructs: The Neuronal Computational Schemes for
  Resolution of Life's Complexities
For complex life to evolve, a sophisticated nervous system for handling its
complexities was fundamental. The demand resulted in the emergence of brain's
computational facility, the neuronal network. This facet of the brain is
attested solidly by its inspired scientific computational neural nets which
(mathematically) resolve and solve many complex problems. The presumptive
general semblance of the computational operation between the two systems allows
for the inference that the process in brain's neural domain also renders
complexities for solution, as sets of parametric equations, like the basic
implicit algorithmic formalisms underlying the operations of the scientific
neural nets. This parallel is based on the fact that such devices resolve
complex problems for which no declarative logical formulation is deployed. The
mathematically resolved neural net problem formalism also resembled that of any
theoretically known and formulated complexities which are algorithmized, in
their discretized solution domains, within the context of initial and boundary
value problems for direct or iterative solution by computers. The brain
neuronal net algorithmization of complexities delineate the governing equations
of life and living, solutions of which are achieved by trial and error
learning, deploying rest of the nervous system and other faculties of living
beings. The computational operations of the brain delineate two mental states:
consciousness and the unconscious; the aware and unaware states which describes
the interactive living processes involved in charting life's path.