Structural subnetwork evolution across the life-span: rich-club, feeder,
  seeder
The impact of developmental and aging processes on brain connectivity and the
connectome has been widely studied. Network theoretical measures and certain
topological principles are computed from the entire brain, however there is a
need to separate and understand the underlying subnetworks which contribute
towards these observed holistic connectomic alterations. One organizational
principle is the rich-club - a core subnetwork of brain regions that are
strongly connected, forming a high-cost, high-capacity backbone that is
critical for effective communication in the network. Investigations primarily
focus on its alterations with disease and age. Here, we present a systematic
analysis of not only the rich-club, but also other subnetworks derived from
this backbone - namely feeder and seeder subnetworks. Our analysis is applied
to structural connectomes in a normal cohort from a large, publicly available
lifespan study. We demonstrate changes in rich-club membership with age
alongside a shift in importance from 'peripheral' seeder to feeder subnetworks.
Our results show a refinement within the rich-club structure (increase in
transitivity and betweenness centrality), as well as increased efficiency in
the feeder subnetwork and decreased measures of network integration and
segregation in the seeder subnetwork. These results demonstrate the different
developmental patterns when analyzing the connectome stratified according to
its rich-club and the potential of utilizing this subnetwork analysis to reveal
the evolution of brain architectural alterations across the life-span.