Affine Geometry, Visual Sensation, and Preference for Symmetry of Things
  in a Thing
Evolution and geometry generate complexity in similar ways. Evolution drives
natural selection while geometry may capture the logic of this selection and
express it visually, in terms of specific generic properties representing some
kind of advantage. Geometry is ideally suited for expressing the logic of
evolutionary selection for symmetry, which is found in the shape curves of vein
systems and other natural objects such as leaves, cell membranes, or tunnel
systems built by ants. The topology and geometry of symmetry is controlled by
numerical parameters, which act in analogy with a biological organism's DNA.
The introductory part of this paper reviews findings from experiments
illustrating the critical role of two-dimensional design parameters and shape
symmetry for visual or tactile shape sensation, and for perception-based
decision making in populations of experts and non-experts. Thereafter, results
from a pilot study on the effects of fractal symmetry, referred to herein as
the symmetry of things in a thing, on aesthetic judgments and visual preference
are presented. In a first experiment (psychophysical scaling procedure),
non-expert observers had to rate (scale from 0 to 10) the perceived
attractiveness of a random series of 2D fractal trees with varying degrees of
fractal symmetry. In a second experiment (two-alternative forced choice
procedure), they had to express their preference for one of two shapes from the
series. The shape pairs were presented successively in random order. Results
show that the smallest possible fractal deviation from "symmetry of things in a
thing" significantly reduces the perceived attractiveness of such shapes. The
potential of future studies where different levels of complexity of fractal
patterns are weighed against different degrees of symmetry is pointed out in
the conclusion.