Variability of model-free and model-based quantitative measures of EEG
The extent of intra-individual and inter-individual variability is an
important factor in determining the statistical, and hence possibly clinical,
significance of observed differences in the EEG. This study investigates the
changes in classical quantitative EEG (qEEG) measures, as well as of parameters
obtained by fitting frequency spectra to a continuum model of brain electrical
activity. These parameters may have extra variability due to model selection
and fitting. Besides estimating levels of intra-individual and inter-individual
variability, we determine approximate time scales for change in qEEG measures
and model parameters. This provides an estimate of the recording length needed
to capture a given percentage of the total intra-individual variability. Also,
if more precise time scales can be obtained in future, these may aid the
characterization of physiological processes underlying various EEG measures.
Heterogeneity of the subject group was constrained by testing only healthy
males in a narrow age range (mean = 22.3 years, sd = 2.7). Resting eyes-closed
EEGs of 32 subjects were recorded at weekly intervals over an approximately
six-week period. Of these, 13 subjects had follow-up recordings spanning up to
a year. QEEG measures, computed from Cz spectra, were powers in five frequency
bands, alpha peak frequency, and spectral entropy. Of these, theta, alpha, and
beta band powers were most reproducible. Of nine model parameters obtained by
fitting model predictions to experiment, the most reproducible ones quantified
the total power and the time delay between cortex and thalamus. About 95% of
the maximum change in spectral parameters was reached within minutes of
recording time, implying that repeat recordings are not necessary to capture
the bulk of the variability in EEG spectra likely to occur in the resting
eyes-closed state on the scale of a year.