Relevance of Quantum Mechanics in Circuit Implementation of Ion channels
  in Brain Dynamics
With an increasing amount of experimental evidence pouring in from
neurobiological investigations, it is quite appropriate to study viable
reductionist models which may explain some of the features of brain activities.
It is now quite well known that the Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) Model has been quite
successful in explaining the neural phenomena. The idea of circuit equivalents
and the membrane voltages corresponding to neurons have been remarkable which
is essentially a classical result. In view of some recent results which show
that quantum mechanics may be important at suitable length scales inside the
brain, the question which becomes quite important is to find out a proper
quantum analogue of the HH scheme which will reduce to the well known HH model
in a suitable limit. From the ideas of neuro-manifold and the relevance of
quantum mechanics at some length scales in the ion channels, we investigate
this situation in this paper by taking into consideration the Schr\"odinger
equation in an arbitrary manifold with a metric, which is in some sense a
special case of the heat kernel equation. The next important approach we have
taken in order to bring about it's relevance in brain studies and to make
connection with HH models is to find out a plausible circuit equivalents of it.
What we do realize is that for a proper quantum mechanical description and it's
circuit implementation of the same we need to incorporate the non commutativity
inside the circuit model. It has been realized here that the metric is a
dynamical entity governing space time and for considering equivalent circuits
it plays a very distinct role. We have used the methods of stochastic
quantization and have constructed a specific case here and see that HH model
inductances gets renormalized in the quantum limit.