The cell-type specific connectivity of the local cortical network
  explains prominent features of neuronal activity
In the past decade, the cell-type specific connectivity and activity of local
cortical networks have been characterized experimentally to some detail. In
parallel, modeling has been established as a tool to relate network structure
to activity dynamics. While the available connectivity maps have been used in
various computational studies, prominent features of the simulated activity
such as the spontaneous firing rates do not match the experimental findings.
Here, we show that the inconsistency arises from the incompleteness of the
connectivity maps. Our comparison of the most comprehensive maps (Thomson et
al., 2002; Binzegger et al., 2004) reveals their main discrepancies: the
lateral sampling range and the specific selection of target cells. Taking them
into account, we compile an integrated connectivity map and analyze the unified
map by simulations of a full scale model of the local layered cortical network.
The simulated spontaneous activity is asynchronous irregular and the cell-type
specific spontaneous firing rates are in agreement with in vivo recordings in
awake animals, including the low rate of layer 2/3 excitatory cells. Similarly,
the activation patterns evoked by transient thalamic inputs reproduce recent in
vivo measurements. The correspondence of simulation results and experiments
rests on the consideration of specific target type selection and thereby on the
integration of a large body of the available connectivity data. The cell-type
specific hierarchical input structure and the combination of feed-forward and
feedback connections reveal how the interplay of excitation and inhibition
shapes the spontaneous and evoked activity of the local cortical network.