Intrinsically-generated fluctuating activity in excitatory-inhibitory
  networks
Recurrent networks of non-linear units display a variety of dynamical regimes
depending on the structure of their synaptic connectivity. A particularly
remarkable phenomenon is the appearance of strongly fluctuating, chaotic
activity in networks of deterministic, but randomly connected rate units. How
this type of intrinsi- cally generated fluctuations appears in more realistic
networks of spiking neurons has been a long standing question. To ease the
comparison between rate and spiking networks, recent works investigated the
dynami- cal regimes of randomly-connected rate networks with segregated
excitatory and inhibitory populations, and firing rates constrained to be
positive. These works derived general dynamical mean field (DMF) equations
describing the fluctuating dynamics, but solved these equations only in the
case of purely inhibitory networks. Using a simplified excitatory-inhibitory
architecture in which DMF equations are more easily tractable, here we show
that the presence of excitation qualitatively modifies the fluctuating activity
compared to purely inhibitory networks. In presence of excitation,
intrinsically generated fluctuations induce a strong increase in mean firing
rates, a phenomenon that is much weaker in purely inhibitory networks.
Excitation moreover induces two different fluctuating regimes: for moderate
overall coupling, recurrent inhibition is sufficient to stabilize fluctuations,
for strong coupling, firing rates are stabilized solely by the upper bound
imposed on activity, even if inhibition is stronger than excitation. These
results extend to more general network architectures, and to rate networks
receiving noisy inputs mimicking spiking activity. Finally, we show that
signatures of the second dynamical regime appear in networks of
integrate-and-fire neurons.