Navigation of brain networks
Understanding the mechanisms of neural communication in large-scale brain
networks remains a major goal in neuroscience. We investigated whether
navigation is a parsimonious routing model for connectomics. Navigating a
network involves progressing to the next node that is closest in distance to a
desired destination. We developed a measure to quantify navigation efficiency
and found that connectomes in a range of mammalian species (human, mouse and
macaque) can be successfully navigated with near-optimal efficiency (>80% of
optimal efficiency for typical connection densities). Rewiring network topology
or repositioning network nodes resulted in 45%-60% reductions in navigation
performance. Specifically, we found that brain networks cannot be progressively
rewired (randomized or clusterized) to result in topologies with significantly
improved navigation performance. Navigation was also found to: i) promote a
resource-efficient distribution of the information traffic load, potentially
relieving communication bottlenecks; and, ii) explain significant variation in
functional connectivity. Unlike prevalently studied communication strategies in
connectomics, navigation does not mandate biologically unrealistic assumptions
about global knowledge of network topology. We conclude that the wiring and
spatial embedding of brain networks is conducive to effective decentralized
communication. Graph-theoretic studies of the connectome should consider
measures of network efficiency and centrality that are consistent with
decentralized models of neural communication.