The effect of heterogeneity on decorrelation mechanisms in spiking
  neural networks: a neuromorphic-hardware study
High-level brain function such as memory, classification or reasoning can be
realized by means of recurrent networks of simplified model neurons. Analog
neuromorphic hardware constitutes a fast and energy efficient substrate for the
implementation of such neural computing architectures in technical applications
and neuroscientific research. The functional performance of neural networks is
often critically dependent on the level of correlations in the neural activity.
In finite networks, correlations are typically inevitable due to shared
presynaptic input. Recent theoretical studies have shown that inhibitory
feedback, abundant in biological neural networks, can actively suppress these
shared-input correlations and thereby enable neurons to fire nearly
independently. For networks of spiking neurons, the decorrelating effect of
inhibitory feedback has so far been explicitly demonstrated only for
homogeneous networks of neurons with linear sub-threshold dynamics. Theory,
however, suggests that the effect is a general phenomenon, present in any
system with sufficient inhibitory feedback, irrespective of the details of the
network structure or the neuronal and synaptic properties. Here, we investigate
the effect of network heterogeneity on correlations in sparse, random networks
of inhibitory neurons with non-linear, conductance-based synapses. Emulations
of these networks on the analog neuromorphic hardware system Spikey allow us to
test the efficiency of decorrelation by inhibitory feedback in the presence of
hardware-specific heterogeneities. The configurability of the hardware
substrate enables us to modulate the extent of heterogeneity in a systematic
manner. We selectively study the effects of shared input and recurrent
connections on correlations in membrane potentials and spike trains. Our
results confirm ...