Elements of Consciousness and Cognition. Biology, Mathematic, Physics
  and Panpsychism: an Information Topology Perspective
This review presents recent and older results on elementary quantitative and
qualitative aspects of consciousness and cognition and tackles the question
"What is consciousness?" conjointly from biological, neuroscience-cognitive,
physical and mathematical points of view. It proposes to unify various results
and theories by means of information topology.
  The first chapter presents the postulates and results on elementary
perception at various organizational scales of the nervous system and proposes
the hypothesis of an electrodynamic intrinsic nature of consciousness which is
sustained by an analogical code. It underlines the diversity of the learning
mechanisms that sustain the dynamics of perception and consciousness, including
adaptive and homeostatic processes on multiple scales.
  The second chapter investigates the logical aspects of cognition and
consciousness and proposes an axiomatization based on measure and probability
theory. Topos and constructive logic are presented as providing an intrinsic
probabilistic logic, with the long-term aim of avoiding the paradoxical
decomposition induced by the Axiom of Choice. We sketch an elementary procedure
allowing an expression of the information of a mathematical formula a la Godel.
We then present the formalism of information topology and propose that it
provides a preliminary basis for synthesizing the main models of cognition and
consciousness within a formal Gestalt theory. Information topology establishes
a characterization of information theory functions, allowing for a precise
expression of information structures and patterns. It provides a quantification
of the structure of statistical interactions and their expression in terms of
statistical physics and machine learning. Notably, those topological methods
allow conciliation of some of the main theories of consciousness.