Explicitly Linking Regional Activation and Function Connectivity:
  Community Structure of Weighted Networks with Continuous Annotation
A major challenge in neuroimaging is understanding the mapping of
neurophysiological dynamics onto cognitive functions. Traditionally, these maps
have been constructed by examining changes in the activity magnitude of regions
related to task performance. Recently, network neuroscience has produced
methods to map connectivity patterns among many regions to certain cognitive
functions by drawing on tools from network science and graph theory. However,
these two different views are rarely addressed simultaneously, largely because
few tools exist that account for patterns between nodes while simultaneously
considering activation of nodes. We address this gap by solving the problem of
community detection on weighted networks with continuous (non-integer)
annotations by deriving a generative probabilistic model. This model generates
communities whose members connect densely to nodes within their own community,
and whose members share similar annotation values. We demonstrate the utility
of the model in the context of neuroimaging data gathered during a motor
learning paradigm, where edges are task-based functional connectivity and
annotations to each node are beta weights from a general linear model that
encoded a linear decrease in blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal with practice.
Interestingly, we observe that individuals who learn at a faster rate exhibit
the greatest dissimilarity between functional connectivity and activation
magnitudes, suggesting that activation and functional connectivity are distinct
dimensions of neurophysiology that track behavioral change. More generally, the
tool that we develop offers an explicit, mathematically principled link between
functional activation and functional connectivity, and can readily be applied
to a other similar problems in which one set of imaging data offers network
data, and a second offers a regional attribute.