From Caenorhabditis elegans to the Human Connectome: A Specific Modular
  Organisation Increases Metabolic, Functional, and Developmental Efficiency
The connectome, or the entire connectivity of a neural system represented by
network, ranges various scales from synaptic connections between individual
neurons to fibre tract connections between brain regions. Although the
modularity they commonly show has been extensively studied, it is unclear
whether connection specificity of such networks can already be fully explained
by the modularity alone. To answer this question, we study two networks, the
neuronal network of C. elegans and the fibre tract network of human brains
yielded through diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI). We compare them to their
respective benchmark networks with varying modularities, which are generated by
link swapping to have desired modularity values but otherwise maximally random.
We find several network properties that are specific to the neural networks and
cannot be fully explained by the modularity alone. First, the clustering
coefficient and the characteristic path length of C. elegans and human
connectomes are both higher than those of the benchmark networks with similar
modularity. High clustering coefficient indicates efficient local information
distribution and high characteristic path length suggests reduced global
integration. Second, the total wiring length is smaller than for the
alternative configurations with similar modularity. This is due to lower
dispersion of connections, which means each neuron in C. elegans connectome or
each region of interest (ROI) in human connectome reaches fewer ganglia or
cortical areas, respectively. Third, both neural networks show lower
algorithmic entropy compared to the alternative arrangements. This implies that
fewer rules are needed to encode for the organisation of neural systems.