A morphospace framework to assess cognitive flexibility based on brain
  functional networks
Unfolding how the brain functionally shifts within the cognitive space
remains an unresolved question. From a brain connectivity perspective, there
exist two main concepts: cognitive shifts and cognitive flexibility. Although
the former is the proxy of the latter, the biggest challenge, in terms of
bridging these two concepts, lies in the fact that cognitive shifts are
governed by topological rules whereas cognitive flexibility is purely
numerical. In this paper, we bridge the aforementioned concepts while
preserving the complexity of cognition by proposing a formalism based on a 2D
network morphospace that quantifies trapping and exit characteristics of
network subsystems, naturally interpreted as functional communities. We show
that the constructed measurements reflect the emergent phenomenon of
higher-order cognitive states in addition to being able to quantify cognitive
flexibility, as a direct output. Leveraging this analytic framework, cognitive
shifts among traversedly integrated/segregated states of cognition are shown to
be projected from subject specific cognitive signatures. The evidence of
individual fingerprint emerged from cognitive flexibility domain legitimizes
the quest to explore the intrinsic relationship between flexibility of
functional networks and behavioral measures, including fluid intelligence. The
constructed multi-linear models using flexibility descriptors demonstrate an
above chance level of specificity. Finally, through the associations between
behavioral measures and flexibility theory, we found that frontoparietal (FP)
activation level, expressed through FP preconfiguration, and default mode
network (DMN) efficiency, expressed through DMN preconfiguration, are
positively correlated with all behavioral measures.