Multi-scale detection of hierarchical community architecture in
  structural and functional brain networks
Community detection algorithms have been widely used to study the
organization of complex systems like the brain. A principal appeal of these
techniques is their ability to identify a partition of brain regions (or nodes)
into communities, where nodes within a community are densely interconnected. In
their simplest application, community detection algorithms are agnostic to the
presence of community hierarchies, but a common characteristic of many neural
systems is a nested hierarchy. To address this limitation, we exercise a
multi-scale extension of a community detection technique known as modularity
maximization, and we apply the tool to both synthetic graphs and graphs derived
from human structural and functional imaging data. Our multi-scale community
detection algorithm links a graph to copies of itself across neighboring
topological scales, thereby becoming sensitive to conserved community
organization across neighboring levels of the hierarchy. We demonstrate that
this method allows for a better characterization of topological inhomogeneities
of the graph's hierarchy by providing a local (node) measure of community
stability and inter-scale reliability across topological scales. We compare the
brain's structural and functional network architectures and demonstrate that
structural graphs display a wider range of topological scales than functional
graphs. Finally, we build a multimodal multiplex graph that combines structural
and functional connectivity in a single model, and we identify the topological
scales where resting state functional connectivity and underlying structural
connectivity show similar versus unique hierarchical community architecture.
Together, our results showcase the advantages of the multi-scale community
detection algorithm in studying hierarchical community structure in brain
graphs, and they illustrate its utility in modeling multimodal neuroimaging
data.