Brain Network Architecture: Implications for Human Learning
Human learning is a complex phenomenon that requires adaptive processes
across a range of temporal and spacial scales. While our understanding of those
processes at single scales has increased exponentially over the last few years,
a mechanistic understanding of the entire phenomenon has remained elusive. We
propose that progress has been stymied by the lack of a quantitative framework
that can account for the full range of neurophysiological and behavioral
dynamics both across scales in the systems and also across different types of
learning. We posit that network neuroscience offers promise in meeting this
challenge. Built on the mathematical fields of complex systems science and
graph theory, network neuroscience embraces the interconnected and hierarchical
nature of human learning, offering insights into the emergent properties of
adaptability. In this review, we discuss the utility of network neuroscience as
a tool to build a quantitative framework in which to study human learning,
which seeks to explain the full chain of events in the brain from sensory input
to motor output, being both biologically plausible and able to make predictions
about how an intervention at a single level of the chain may cause alterations
in another level of the chain. We close by laying out important remaining
challenges in network neuroscience in explicitly bridging spatial scales at
which neurophysiological processes occur, and underscore the utility of such a
quantitative framework for education and therapy.