Electrophysiological correlates of non-stationary BOLD functional
  connectivity fluctuations
Spontaneous fluctuations of the BOLD (Blood Oxygen Level-Dependent) signal,
measured with fMRI (functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging), display a rich and
neurobiologically relevant functional connectivity structure. This structure is
usually revealed using time averaging methods, which prevent the detection of
functional connectivity changes over time. In this work we studied the
electrophysiological correlates of dynamical BOLD functional connectivity
fluctuations, by means of long (approx. 50 min) joint electroencephalographic
(EEG) and fMRI recordings. We identified widespread positive and negative
correlations between EEG spectral power and fMRI BOLD connectivity fluctuations
in a network of 90 cortical and subcortical regions. In particular, increased
alpha (8-12 Hz) and beta (15-30 Hz) power were related to decreased functional
connectivity, whereas gamma (30-60 Hz) power correlated positively with BOLD
connectivity between specific brain regions. Furthermore, these patterns were
altered for subjects undergoing vigilance changes, with an involvement of the
slow delta (0.4 - 4 Hz) band in localized positive correlations. Finally, graph
theoretical indices of network structure also exhibited sharp changes over
time, with average path length correlating positively with alpha power
extracted from central and frontal electrodes. Our results strongly suggest
that non-stationary BOLD functional connectivity has a neurophysiological
origin. Positive correlations of BOLD connectivity with gamma can be
interpreted as increased average binding over relatively long periods of time,
possibly due to spontaneous cognition occurring during rest. Negative
correlations with alpha suggest functional inhibition of local and long-range
connectivity, associated with an idling state of the brain.