A Differential Degree Test for Comparing Brain Networks
Recently, graph theory has become a popular method for characterizing brain
functional organization. One important goal in graph theoretical analysis of
brain networks is to identify network differences across disease types or
conditions. Typical approaches include massive univariate testing of each edge
or comparisons of local and/or global network metrics to identify deviations in
topological organization. Some limitations of these methods include low
statistical power due to the large number of comparisons and difficulty
attributing overall differences in networks to local variations in brain
function. We propose a novel differential degree test (DDT) to identify brain
regions incident to a large number of differentially weighted edges across two
populations. The proposed test could help detect key brain locations involved
in diseases by demonstrating significantly altered neural connections. We
achieve this by generating an appropriate set of null networks which are
matched on the first and second moments of the observed difference network
using the Hirschberger-Qi-Steuer (HQS) algorithm. This formulation permits
separation of the network's true topology from the nuisance topology which is
induced by the correlation measure and may drive inter-regional connectivity in
ways unrelated to the brain function. Simulations indicate that the proposed
approach routinely outperforms competing methods in detecting differentially
connected regions of interest. Furthermore, we propose a data-adaptive
threshold selection procedure which is able to detect differentially weighted
edges and is shown to outperform competing methods that perform edge-wise
comparisons controlling for the error rate. An application of our method to a
major depressive disorder dataset leads to the identification of brain regions
in the default mode network commonly implicated in this ruminative disorder.