The temporal evolution of the central fixation bias in scene viewing
When watching the image of a natural scene on a computer screen, observers
initially move their eyes towards the center of the image --- a reliable
experimental finding termed central fixation bias. This systematic tendency in
eye guidance likely masks attentional selection driven by image properties and
top-down cognitive processes. Here we show that the central fixation bias can
be reduced by delaying the initial saccade relative to image onset. In four
scene-viewing experiments we manipulated observers' initial gaze position and
delayed their first saccade by a specific time interval relative to the onset
of an image. We analyzed the distance to image center over time and show that
the central fixation bias of initial fixations was significantly reduced after
delayed saccade onsets. We additionally show that selection of the initial
saccade target strongly depended on the first saccade latency. Processes
influencing the time course of the central fixation bias were investigated by
comparing simulations of several dynamic and statistical models. Model
comparisons suggest that the central fixation bias is generated by a default
activation as a response to the sudden image onset and that this default
activation pattern decreases over time. Our results suggest that it may often
be preferable to use a modified version of the scene viewing paradigm that
decouples image onset from the start signal for scene exploration and
explicitly controls the central fixation bias. In general, the initial fixation
location and the latency of the first saccade need to be taken into
consideration when investigating eye movements during scene viewing.