The nonlinear heat equation on dense graphs and graph limits
We use the combination of ideas and results from the theory of graph limits
and nonlinear evolution equations to provide a rigorous mathematical
justification for taking continuum limit for certain nonlocally coupled
networks and to extend this method to cover many complex networks, for which it
has not been applied before. Specifically, for dynamical networks on convergent
sequences of simple and weighted graphs, we prove convergence of solutions of
the initial-value problems for discrete models to those of the limiting
continuous equations. In addition, for sequences of simple graphs converging to
{0, 1}-valued graphons, it is shown that the convergence rate depends on the
fractal dimension of the boundary of the support of the graph limit. These
results are then used to study the regions of continuity of chimera states and
the attractors of the nonlocal Kuramoto equation on certain multipartite
graphs. Furthermore, the analytical tools developed in this work are used in
the rigorous justification of the continuum limit for networks on random graphs
that we undertake in a companion paper (Medvedev, 2013).
  As a by-product of the analysis of the continuum limit on deterministic and
random graphs, we identify the link between this problem and the convergence
analysis of several classical numerical schemes: the collocation, Galerkin, and
Monte-Carlo methods. Therefore, our results can be used to characterize
convergence of these approximate methods of solving initial-value problems for
nonlinear evolution equations with nonlocal interactions.