A tale of two stories: astrocyte regulation of synaptic depression and
  facilitation
Short-term presynaptic plasticity designates variations of the amplitude of
synaptic information transfer whereby the amount of neurotransmitter released
upon presynaptic stimulation changes over seconds as a function of the neuronal
firing activity. While a consensus has emerged that changes of the synapse
strength are crucial to neuronal computations, their modes of expression in
vivo remain unclear. Recent experimental studies have reported that glial
cells, particularly astrocytes in the hippocampus, are able to modulate
short-term plasticity but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. Here,
we investigate the characteristics of short-term plasticity modulation by
astrocytes using a biophysically realistic computational model. Mean-field
analysis of the model unravels that astrocytes may mediate counterintuitive
effects. Depending on the expressed presynaptic signaling pathways, astrocytes
may globally inhibit or potentiate the synapse: the amount of released
neurotransmitter in the presence of the astrocyte is transiently smaller or
larger than in its absence. But this global effect usually coexists with the
opposite local effect on paired pulses: with release-decreasing astrocytes most
paired pulses become facilitated, while paired-pulse depression becomes
prominent under release-increasing astrocytes. Moreover, we show that the
frequency of astrocytic intracellular Ca2+ oscillations controls the effects of
the astrocyte on short-term synaptic plasticity. Our model explains several
experimental observations yet unsolved, and uncovers astrocytic
gliotransmission as a possible transient switch between short-term paired-pulse
depression and facilitation. This possibility has deep implications on the
processing of neuronal spikes and resulting information transfer at synapses.