Corticospinal Tract (CST) reconstruction based on fiber orientation
  distributions(FODs) tractography
The Corticospinal Tract (CST) is a part of pyramidal tract (PT), and it can
innervate the voluntary movement of skeletal muscle through spinal interneurons
(the 4th layer of the Rexed gray board layers), and anterior horn motorneurons
(which control trunk and proximal limb muscles). Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a
highly disabling disease often caused by traffic accidents. The recovery of CST
and the functional reconstruction of spinal anterior horn motor neurons play an
essential role in the treatment of SCI. However, the localization and
reconstruction of CST are still challenging issues; the accuracy of the
geometric reconstruction can directly affect the results of the surgery. The
main contribution of this paper is the reconstruction of the CST based on the
fiber orientation distributions (FODs) tractography. Differing from
tensor-based tractography in which the primary direction is a determined
orientation, the direction of FODs tractography is determined by the
probability. The spherical harmonics (SPHARM) can be used to approximate the
efficiency of FODs tractography. We manually delineate the three ROIs (the
posterior limb of the internal capsule, the cerebral peduncle, and the anterior
pontine area) by the ITK-SNAP software, and use the pipeline software to
reconstruct both the left and right sides of the CST fibers. Our results
demonstrate that FOD-based tractography can show more and correct anatomical
CST fiber bundles.