Advanced Analysis of Quantum Contextuality in a Psychophysical
  Double-Detection Experiment
The results of behavioral experiments typically exhibit inconsistent
connectedness, i.e., they violate the condition known as "no-signaling,"
"no-disturbance," or "marginal selectivity." This prevents one from evaluating
these experiments in terms of quantum contextuality if the latter understood
traditionally (as, e.g., in the Kochen-Specker theorem or Bell-type
inequalities). The Contextuality-by-Default (CbD) theory separates
contextuality from inconsistent connectedness. When applied to quantum physical
experiments that exhibit inconsistent connectedness (due to context-dependent
errors and/or signaling), the CbD computations reveal quantum contextuality in
spite of this. When applied to a large body of published behavioral
experiments, the CbD computations reveal no quantum contextuality: all
context-dependence in these experiments is described by inconsistent
connectedness alone. Until recently, however, experimental analysis of
contextuality was confined to so-called cyclic systems of binary random
variables. Here, we present the results of a psychophysical double-detection
experiment that do not form a cyclic system: their analysis requires that we
use a recent modification of CbD, one that makes the class of noncontextual
systems more restricted. Nevertheless our results once again indicate that when
inconsistent connectedness is taken into account, the system exhibits no
contextuality. KEYWORDS: contextuality, cyclic systems, double-detection,
inconsistent connectedness, psychophysics.