Stability of spontaneous, correlated activity in mouse auditory cortex
Neural systems can be modeled as networks of functionally connected neural
elements. The resulting network can be analyzed using mathematical tools from
network science and graph theory to quantify the system's topological
organization and to better understand its function. While the network-based
approach is common in the analysis of large-scale neural systems probed by
non-invasive neuroimaging, few studies have used network science to study the
organization of networks reconstructed at the cellular level, and thus many
very basic and fundamental questions remain unanswered. Here, we used
two-photon calcium imaging to record spontaneous activity from the same set of
cells in mouse auditory cortex over the course of several weeks. We reconstruct
functional networks in which cells are linked to one another by edges weighted
according to the correlation of their fluorescence traces. We show that the
networks exhibit modular structure across multiple topological scales and that
these multi-scale modules unfold as part of a hierarchy. We also show that, on
average, network architecture becomes increasingly dissimilar over time, with
similarity decaying monotonically with the distance (in time) between sessions.
Finally, we show that a small fraction of cells maintain strongly-correlated
activity over multiple days, forming a stable temporal core surrounded by a
fluctuating and variable periphery. Our work provides a careful methodological
blueprint for future studies of spontaneous activity measured by two-photon
calcium imaging using cutting-edge computational methods and machine learning
algorithms informed by explicit graphical models from network science. The
methods are easily extended to additional datasets, opening the possibility of
studying cellular level network organization of neural systems and how that
organization is modulated by stimuli or altered in models of disease.