Phase-amplitude descriptions of neural oscillator models
Phase oscillators are a common starting point for the reduced description of
many single neuron models that exhibit a strongly attracting limit cycle. The
framework for analysing such models in response to weak perturbations is now
particularly well advanced, and has allowed for the development of a theory of
weakly connected neural networks. However, the strong-attraction assumption may
well not be the natural one for many neural oscillator models. For example, the
popular conductance based Morris-Lecar model is known to respond to periodic
pulsatile stimulation in a chaotic fashion that cannot be adequately described
with a phase reduction. In this paper, we generalise the phase description that
allows one to track the evolution of distance from the cycle as well as phase
on cycle. We use a classical technique from the theory of ordinary differential
equations that makes use of a moving coordinate system to analyse periodic
orbits. The subsequent phase-amplitude description is shown to be very well
suited to understanding the response of the oscillator to external stimuli
(which are not necessarily weak). We consider a number of examples of neural
oscillator models, ranging from planar through to high dimensional models, to
illustrate the effectiveness of this approach in providing an improvement over
the standard phase-reduction technique. As an explicit application of this
phase-amplitude framework, we consider in some detail the response of a generic
planar model where the strong-attraction assumption does not hold, and examine
the response of the system to periodic pulsatile forcing. In addition, we
explore how the presence of dynamical shear can lead to a chaotic response.