The space-clamped Hodgkin-Huxley system with random synaptic input:
  inhibition of spiking by weak noise and analysis with moment equations
We consider a classical space-clamped Hodgkin-Huxley model neuron stimulated
by synaptic excitation and inhibition with conductances represented by
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. Using numerical solutions of the stochastic model
system obtained by an Euler method, it is found that with excitation only there
is a critical value of the steady state excitatory conductance for repetitive
spiking without noise and for values of the conductance near the critical value
small noise has a powerfully inhibitory effect. For a given level of inhibition
there is also a critical value of the steady state excitatory conductance for
repetitive firing and it is demonstrated that noise either in the excitatory or
inhibitory processes or both can powerfully inhibit spiking. Furthermore, near
the critical value, inverse stochastic resonance was observed when noise was
present only in the inhibitory input process.
  The system of 27 coupled deterministic differential equations for the
approximate first and second order moments of the 6-dimensional model is
derived. The moment differential equations are solved using Runge-Kutta methods
and the solutions are compared with the results obtained by simulation for
various sets of parameters including some with conductances obtained by
experiment on pyramidal cells of rat prefrontal cortex. The mean and variance
obtained from simulation are in good agreement when there is spiking induced by
strong stimulation and relatively small noise or when the voltage is
fluctuating at subthreshold levels. In the occasional spike mode sometimes
exhibited by spinal motoneurons and cortical pyramidal cells the assunptions
underlying the moment equation approach are not satisfied.