Response and noise correlations to complex natural sounds in the
  auditory midbrain
How natural communication sounds are spatially represented across the
inferior colliculus, the main center of convergence for auditory information in
the midbrain, is not known. The neural representation of the acoustic stimuli
results from the interplay of locally differing input and the organization of
spectral and temporal neural preferences that change gradually across the
nucleus. This raises the question how similar the neural representation of the
communication sounds is across these gradients of neural preferences, and
whether it also changes gradually. Multi-unit cluster spike trains were
recorded from guinea pigs presented with a spectrotemporally rich set of eleven
species-specific communication sounds. Using cross-correlation, we analyzed the
response similarity of spiking activity across a broad frequency range for
similarly and differently frequency-tuned neurons. Furthermore, we separated
the contribution of the stimulus to the correlations to investigate whether
similarity is only attributable to the stimulus, or, whether interactions exist
between the multi-unit clusters that lead to correlations and whether these
follow the same representation as the response similarity. We found that
similarity of responses is dependent on the neurons' spatial distance for
similarly and differently frequency-tuned neurons, and that similarity
decreases gradually with spatial distance. Significant neural correlations
exist, and contribute to the response similarity. Our findings suggest that for
multi-unit clusters in the mammalian inferior colliculus, the gradual response
similarity with spatial distance to natural complex sounds is shaped by neural
interactions and the gradual organization of neural preferences.