Effects of Scan Length and Shrinkage on Reliability of Resting-State
  Functional Connectivity in the Human Connectome Project
In this paper, we use data from the Human Connectome Project (N=461) to
investigate the effect of scan length on reliability of resting-state
functional connectivity (rsFC) estimates produced from resting-state functional
magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI). Additionally, we study the benefits of
empirical Bayes shrinkage, in which subject-level estimates borrow strength
from the population average by trading a small increase in bias for a greater
reduction in variance. For each subject, we compute raw and shrinkage estimates
of rsFC between 300 regions identified through independent components analysis
(ICA) based on rsfMRI scans varying from 3 to 30 minutes in length. The time
course for each region is determined using dual regression, and rsFC is
estimated as the Pearson correlation between each pair of time courses.
Shrinkage estimates for each subject are computed as a weighted average between
the raw subject-level estimate and the population average estimate, where the
weight is determined for each connection by the relationship of within-subject
variance to between-subject variance. We find that shrinkage estimates exhibit
greater reliability than raw estimates for most connections, with 30-40%
improvement using scans less than 10 minutes in length and 10-20% improvement
using scans of 20-30 minutes. We also observe significant spatial variability
in reliability of both raw and shrinkage estimates, with connections within the
default mode and motor networks exhibiting the greatest reliability and
between-network connections exhibiting the poorest reliability. We conclude
that the scan length required for reliable estimation of rsFC depends on the
specific connections of interest, and shrinkage can be used to increase
reliability of rsFC, even when produced from long, high-quality rsfMRI scans.