A framework to reconcile frequency scaling measurements, from
  intracellular recordings, local-field potentials, up to EEG and MEG signals
In this viewpoint article, we discuss the electric properties of the medium
around neurons, which are important to correctly interpret extracellular
potentials or electric field effects in neural tissue. We focus on how these
electric properties shape the frequency scaling of brain signals at different
scales, such as intracellular recordings, the local field potential (LFP), the
electroencephalogram (EEG) or the magnetoencephalogram (MEG). These signals
display frequency-scaling properties which are not consistent with resistive
media. The medium appears to exert a frequency filtering scaling as
$1/\sqrt{f}$, which is the typical frequency scaling of ionic diffusion. Such a
scaling was also found recently by impedance measurements in physiological
conditions. Ionic diffusion appears to be the only possible explanation to
reconcile these measurements and the frequency-scaling properties found in
different brain signals. However, other measurements suggest that the
extracellular medium is essentially resistive. To resolve this discrepancy, we
show new evidence that metal-electrode measurements can be perturbed by shunt
currents going through the surface of the brain. Such a shunt may explain the
contradictory measurements, and together with ionic diffusion, provides a
framework where all observations can be reconciled. Finally, we propose a
method to perform measurements avoiding shunting effects, thus enabling to test
the predictions of this framework.