Mechanisms of Zero-Lag Synchronization in Cortical Motifs
Zero-lag synchronization between distant cortical areas has been observed in
a diversity of experimental data sets and between many different regions of the
brain. Several computational mechanisms have been proposed to account for such
isochronous synchronization in the presence of long conduction delays: Of
these, the phenomenon of "dynamical relaying" - a mechanism that relies on a
specific network motif - has proven to be the most robust with respect to
parameter mismatch and system noise. Surprisingly, despite a contrary belief in
the community, the common driving motif is an unreliable means of establishing
zero-lag synchrony. Although dynamical relaying has been validated in empirical
and computational studies, the deeper dynamical mechanisms and comparison to
dynamics on other motifs is lacking. By systematically comparing
synchronization on a variety of small motifs, we establish that the presence of
a single reciprocally connected pair - a "resonance pair" - plays a crucial
role in disambiguating those motifs that foster zero-lag synchrony in the
presence of conduction delays (such as dynamical relaying) from those that do
not (such as the common driving triad). Remarkably, minor structural changes to
the common driving motif that incorporate a reciprocal pair recover robust
zero-lag synchrony. The findings are observed in computational models of
spiking neurons, populations of spiking neurons and neural mass models, and
arise whether the oscillatory systems are periodic, chaotic, noise-free or
driven by stochastic inputs. The influence of the resonance pair is also robust
to parameter mismatch and asymmetrical time delays amongst the elements of the
motif. We call this manner of facilitating zero-lag synchrony resonance-induced
synchronization, outline the conditions for its occurrence, and propose that it
may be a general mechanism to promote zero-lag synchrony in the brain.