Drifting states and synchronization induced chaos in autonomous networks
  of excitable neurons
The study of balanced networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons has led
to several open questions. On the one hand it is yet unclear whether the
asynchronous state observed in the brain is autonomously generated, or if it
results from the interplay between external drivings and internal dynamics. It
is also not known, which kind of network variabilities will lead to irregular
spiking and which to synchronous firing states. Here we show how isolated
networks of purely excitatory neurons generically show asynchronous firing
whenever a minimal level of structural variability is present together with a
refractory period. Our autonomous networks are composed of excitable units, in
the form of leaky integrators spiking only in response to driving inputs. For a
non-uniform network, composed exclusively of excitatory neurons, we find a rich
repertoire of self-induced dynamical states, including asynchronous drifting
states, fully synchronized, or mixed, containing both drifting and synchronized
components. The individual neurons considered are excitable and hence do not
dispose of intrinsic natural firing frequencies. An effective network-wide
distribution of natural frequencies is however generated autonomously through
self-consistent feedback loops. We find two types of asynchronous activity,
with the individual neurons spiking regularly in the pure drifting state,
albeit with a continuous distribution of firing frequencies. The activity of
the drifting component, however, becomes irregular in the mixed state, due to
the periodic driving of the synchronized component. We propose a new tool for
the study of chaos in spiking neural networks, which consists of an analysis of
the time series of pairs of consecutive interspike intervals. In this space, we
show that a strange attractor with a fractal dimension is formed.