The Effect of Nonstationarity on Models Inferred from Neural Data
Neurons subject to a common non-stationary input may exhibit a correlated
firing behavior. Correlations in the statistics of neural spike trains also
arise as the effect of interaction between neurons. Here we show that these two
situations can be distinguished, with machine learning techniques, provided the
data are rich enough. In order to do this, we study the problem of inferring a
kinetic Ising model, stationary or nonstationary, from the available data. We
apply the inference procedure to two data sets: one from salamander retinal
ganglion cells and the other from a realistic computational cortical network
model. We show that many aspects of the concerted activity of the salamander
retinal neurons can be traced simply to the external input. A model of
non-interacting neurons subject to a non-stationary external field outperforms
a model with stationary input with couplings between neurons, even accounting
for the differences in the number of model parameters. When couplings are added
to the non-stationary model, for the retinal data, little is gained: the
inferred couplings are generally not significant. Likewise, the distribution of
the sizes of sets of neurons that spike simultaneously and the frequency of
spike patterns as function of their rank (Zipf plots) are well-explained by an
independent-neuron model with time-dependent external input, and adding
connections to such a model does not offer significant improvement. For the
cortical model data, robust couplings, well correlated with the real
connections, can be inferred using the non-stationary model. Adding connections
to this model slightly improves the agreement with the data for the probability
of synchronous spikes but hardly affects the Zipf plot.