Synthetic Cognitive Development: where intelligence comes from
The human cognitive system is a remarkable exemplar of a general intelligent
system whose competence is not confined to a specific problem domain.
Evidently, general cognitive competences are a product of a prolonged and
complex process of cognitive development. Therefore, the process of cognitive
development is a primary key to understanding the emergence of intelligent
behavior. This paper develops the theoretical foundations for a model that
generalizes the process of cognitive development. The model aims to provide a
realistic scheme for the synthesis of scalable cognitive systems with an
open-ended range of capabilities. Major concepts and theories of human
cognitive development are introduced and briefly explored focusing on the
enactive approach to cognition and the concept of sense-making. The initial
scheme of human cognitive development is then generalized by introducing the
philosophy of individuation and the abstract mechanism of transduction. The
theory of individuation provides the ground for the necessary paradigmatic
shift from cognitive systems as given products to cognitive development as a
formative process of self-organization. Next, the conceptual model is specified
as a scalable scheme of networks of agents. The mechanisms of individuation are
formulated in context independent information theoretical terms. Finally, the
paper discusses two concrete aspects of the generative model -- mechanisms of
transduction and value modulating systems. These are topics of further research
towards a computationally realizable model.