Behavior stability and individual differences in Pavlovian extended
  conditioning
How stable and general is behavior once reached maximum learning? To answer
this question and understand post-acquisition behavior and its related
individual differences, we propose a psychological principle that naturally
extends the basic associative single-cue Rescorla-Wagner model (which may also
be called Hull model) of Pavlovian conditioning to (i) a framework of dynamical
models predicting resistance to learning in the first few sessions followed by
an over-optimal response peak. In turn, (ii) the theory can be further extended
to describe response fluctuations by the laws of quantum mechanics. (iii) We
also introduce an independent model characterized by the presence of a
stochastic noise of cognitive origin. We ran an unusually long experiment with
32 rats over 3960 trials, where we excluded habituation and other well-known
phenomena as sources of variability in the subjects' performance. There is weak
to positive evidence that Hull model is the best nonlinear regression to
averaged data only for a minority of the subjects, while its dynamical
extension (i) can explain the totality of data. The noise encountered in all
individual responses is white, thus confirming the simplest version of model
(iii) but standing in contrast with the colored-noise findings in human
performance. Finally, data are compatible with the quantum extension (ii),
although experimental uncertainties dominate the result. On the other hand,
data do not favor models with (iv) a long-memory effect or (v) where response
variability is solely described by a random fractal.