Individual structural connectivity defines propagation networks in
  partial epilepsy
Neural network oscillations are a fundamental mechanism for cognition,
perception and consciousness. Consequently, perturbations of network activity
play an important role in the pathophysiology of brain disorders. When
structural information from non-invasive brain imaging is merged with
mathematical modeling, then generative brain network models constitute
in-silico platforms for the exploration of causal mechanisms of brain function
and clinical hypothesis testing. We here demonstrate along the example of
drug-resistant epilepsy that patient-specific virtual brain models derived from
diffusion MRI have sufficient predictive power to improve diagnosis and surgery
outcome. In partial epilepsy, seizures originate in a local network, the
so-called epileptogenic zone, before recruiting other close or distant brain
regions. We create personalized large-scale brain networks for 15 patients and
simulate the individual seizure propagation patterns. Model validation is
performed against the presurgical stereotactic electroencephalography (SEEG)
data and the standard-of-care clinical evaluation. We demonstrate that the
individual brain models account for the temporal variability in patient seizure
propagation patterns and explain the variability in postsurgical success. Our
results show that individual variations in structural connectivity, when linked
with mathematical dynamic models, have the capacity to explain changes in
spatiotemporal organization of brain dynamics as observed in network-based
brain disorders, thus opening up avenues towards discovery of novel clinical
interventions.