A Point-process Response Model for Spike Trains from Single Neurons in
  Neural Circuits under Optogenetic Stimulation
Optogenetics is a new tool to study neuronal circuits that have been
genetically modified to allow stimulation by flashes of light. We study
recordings from single neurons within neural circuits under optogenetic
stimulation. The data from these experiments present a statistical challenge of
modeling a high frequency point process (neuronal spikes) while the input is
another high frequency point process (light flashes). We further develop a
generalized linear model approach to model the relationships between two point
processes, employing additive point-process response functions. The resulting
model, Point-process Responses for Optogenetics (PRO), provides explicit
nonlinear transformations to link the input point process with the output one.
Such response functions may provide important and interpretable scientific
insights into the properties of the biophysical process that governs neural
spiking in response to optogenetic stimulation. We validate and compare the PRO
model using a real dataset and simulations, and our model yields a superior
area-under-the- curve value as high as 93% for predicting every future spike.
For our experiment on the recurrent layer V circuit in the prefrontal cortex,
the PRO model provides evidence that neurons integrate their inputs in a
sophisticated manner. Another use of the model is that it enables understanding
how neural circuits are altered under various disease conditions and/or
experimental conditions by comparing the PRO parameters.