Morphology of Fly Larval Class IV Dendrites Accords with a Random
  Branching and Contact Based Branch Deletion Model
Dendrites are branched neuronal processes that receive input signals from
other neurons or the outside world [1]. To maintain connectivity as the
organism grows, dendrites must also continue to grow. For example, the
dendrites in the peripheral nervous system continue to grow and branch to
maintain proper coverage of their receptor fields [2, 3, 4, 5]. One such neuron
is the Drosophila melanogaster class IV dendritic arborization neuron [6]. The
dendritic arbors of these neurons tile the larval surface [7], where they
detect localized noxious stimuli, such as jabs from parasitic wasps [8]. In the
present study, we used a novel measure, the hitting probability, to show that
the class IV neuron forms a tight mesh that covers the larval surface.
Furthermore, we found that the mesh size remains largely unchanged during the
larval stages, despite a dramatic increase in overall size of the neuron and
the larva. We also found that the class IV dendrites are dense (assayed with
the fractal dimension) and uniform (assayed with the lacunarity) throughout the
larval stages. To understand how the class IV neuron maintains its morphology
during larval development, we constructed a mathematical model based on random
branching and self-avoidance. We found that if the branching rate is uniform in
space and time and that if all contacting branches are deleted, we can
reproduce the branch length distribution, mesh size and density of the class IV
dendrites throughout the larval stages. Thus, a simple set of statistical rules
can generate and maintain a complex branching morphology during growth.