Multiscale Fluctuation-based Dispersion Entropy and its Applications to
  Neurological Diseases
Fluctuation-based dispersion entropy (FDispEn) is a new approach to estimate
the dynamical variability of the fluctuations of signals. It is based on
Shannon entropy and fluctuation-based dispersion patterns. To quantify the
physiological dynamics over multiple time scales, multiscale FDispEn (MFDE) is
developed in this article. MFDE is robust to the presence of baseline wanders,
or trends, in the data. We evaluate MFDE, compared with popular multiscale
sample entropy (MSE), and the recently introduced multiscale dispersion entropy
(MDE), on selected synthetic data and five neurological diseases' datasets: 1)
focal and non-focal electroencephalograms (EEGs); 2) walking stride interval
signals for young, elderly, and Parkinson's subjects; 3) stride interval
fluctuations for Huntington's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; 4)
EEGs for controls and Alzheimer's disease patients; and 5) eye movement data
for Parkinson's disease and ataxia. MFDE dealt with the problem of undefined
MSE values and, compared with MDE, led to more stable entropy values over the
scale factors for pink noise. Overall, MFDE was the fastest and most consistent
method for the discrimination of different states of neurological data,
especially where the mean value of a time series considerably changes along the
signal (e.g., eye movement data). This study shows that MFDE is a relevant new
metric to gain further insights into the dynamics of neurological diseases
recordings.