Effects of spike-triggered negative feedback on receptive-field
  properties
Sensory neurons are often described in terms of a receptive field, that is, a
linear kernel through which stimuli are filtered before they are further
processed. If information transmission is assumed to proceed in a feedforward
cascade, the receptive field may be interpreted as the external stimulus'
profile maximizing neuronal output. The nervous system, however, contains many
feedback loops, and sensory neurons filter more currents than the ones
representing the transduced external stimulus. Some of the additional currents
are generated by the output activity of the neuron itself, and therefore
constitute feedback signals. By means of a time-frequency analysis of the
input/output transformation, here we show how feedback modifies the receptive
field. The model is applicable to various types of feedback processes, from
spike triggered intrinsic conductances to inhibitory synaptic inputs from
nearby neurons. We distinguish between the intrinsic receptive field (filtering
all input currents) and the effective receptive field (filtering only external
stimuli). Whereas the intrinsic receptive field summarizes the biophysical
properties of the neuron associated to subthreshold integration and spike
generation, only the effective receptive field can be interpreted as the
external stimulus' profile maximizing neuronal output. We demonstrate that
spike-triggered feedback shifts low-pass filtering towards band-pass
processing, transforming integrator neurons into resonators. For strong
feedback, a sharp resonance in the spectral neuronal selectivity may appear.
Our results provide a unified framework to interpret a collection of previous
experimental studies where specific feedback mechanisms were shown to modify
the filtering properties of neurons.