Appropriate kernels for Divisive Normalization explained by Wilson-Cowan
  equations
The interaction between wavelet-like sensors in Divisive Normalization is
classically described through Gaussian kernels that decay with spatial
distance, angular distance and frequency distance. However, simultaneous
explanation of (a) distortion perception in natural image databases and (b)
contrast perception of artificial stimuli requires very specific modifications
in classical Divisive Normalization. First, the wavelet response has to be
high-pass filtered before the Gaussian interaction is applied. Then, distinct
weights per subband are also required after the Gaussian interaction. In
summary, the classical Gaussian kernel has to be left- and right-multiplied by
two extra diagonal matrices.
  In this paper we provide a lower-level justification for this specific
empirical modification required in the Gaussian kernel of Divisive
Normalization. Here we assume that the psychophysical behavior described by
Divisive Normalization comes from neural interactions following the
Wilson-Cowan equations. In particular, we identify the Divisive Normalization
response with the stationary regime of a Wilson-Cowan model. From this
identification we derive an expression for the Divisive Normalization kernel in
terms of the interaction kernel of the Wilson-Cowan equations. It turns out
that the Wilson-Cowan kernel is left- and-right multiplied by diagonal matrices
with high-pass structure. In conclusion, symmetric Gaussian inhibitory
relations between wavelet-like sensors wired in the lower-level Wilson-Cowan
model lead to the appropriate non-symmetric kernel that has to be empirically
included in Divisive Normalization to explain a wider range of phenomena.