A geometrical analysis of global stability in trained feedback networks
Recurrent neural networks have been extensively studied in the context of
neuroscience and machine learning due to their ability to implement complex
computations. While substantial progress in designing effective learning
algorithms has been achieved in the last years, a full understanding of trained
recurrent networks is still lacking. Specifically, the mechanisms that allow
computations to emerge from the underlying recurrent dynamics are largely
unknown. Here we focus on a simple, yet underexplored computational setup: a
feedback architecture trained to associate a stationary output to a stationary
input. As a starting point, we derive an approximate analytical description of
global dynamics in trained networks which assumes uncorrelated connectivity
weights in the feedback and in the random bulk. The resulting mean-field theory
suggests that the task admits several classes of solutions, which imply
different stability properties. Different classes are characterized in terms of
the geometrical arrangement of the readout with respect to the input vectors,
defined in the high-dimensional space spanned by the network population. We
find that such approximate theoretical approach can be used to understand how
standard training techniques implement the input-output task in finite-size
feedback networks. In particular, our simplified description captures the local
and the global stability properties of the target solution, and thus predicts
training performance.