Evaluation of spike sorting algorithms: Simulations and application to
  human Subthalamic Nucleus recordings
An important prerequisite for the analysis of spike synchrony in
extracellular recordings is the extraction of single unit activity from the
recorded multi unit signal. To identify single units (SUs), potential spikes
are detected and separated with respect to their potential neuronal origins
('spike sorting'). However, different sorting algorithms yield inconsistent
unit assignments which seriously influences the subsequent analyses of the
spiking activity. To evaluate the quality of spike sortings performed with
different prevalent algorithms offered by the 'Plexon Offline Sorter' we first
apply these algorithms to experimental data (ED), namely recordings in the
Subthalamic Nucleus of patients with Parkinson's disease, obtained during Deep
Brain Stimulation surgery. Since this procedure leaves us unsure about the best
sorting result we then apply all methods again to artificial data (AD) with
known ground truth (GT). AD consists of pairs of SUs with different shape
similarity embedded in the background noise of the ED. The sorting evaluation
is based on the influence of the respective methods on the SU assignments and
its effect on the resulting firing characteristics. We find a high variability
in the sorting results obtained by different algorithms that increases with SU
shape similarity. We also find significant differences in the resulting firing
characteristics of the ED. We conclude that Valley-Seeking produces the most
accurate results if the exclusion of artifacts as unsorted events is important.
If the latter is less important ('clean' data) K-Means is a better option. Our
results strongly argue for the need of standardized validation procedures for
spike sorting based on GT data. The recipe suggested here is simple enough to
become a standard procedure.