Optimal Trajectories of Brain State Transitions
The complexity of neural dynamics stems in part from the complexity of the
underlying anatomy. Yet how the organization of white matter architecture
constrains how the brain transitions from one cognitive state to another
remains unknown. Here we address this question from a computational perspective
by defining a brain state as a pattern of activity across brain regions.
Drawing on recent advances in network control theory, we model the underlying
mechanisms of brain state transitions as elicited by the collective control of
region sets. Specifically, we examine how the brain moves from a specified
initial state (characterized by high activity in the default mode) to a
specified target state (characterized by high activity in primary sensorimotor
cortex) in finite time. Across all state transitions, we observe that the
supramarginal gyrus and the inferior parietal lobule consistently acted as
efficient, low energy control hubs, consistent with their strong anatomical
connections to key input areas of sensorimotor cortex. Importantly, both these
and other regions in the fronto-parietal, cingulo-opercular, and attention
systems are poised to affect a broad array of state transitions that cannot
easily be classified by traditional notions of control common in the
engineering literature. This theoretical versatility comes with a vulnerability
to injury. In patients with mild traumatic brain injury, we observe a loss of
specificity in putative control processes, suggesting greater susceptibility to
damage-induced noise in neurophysiological activity. These results offer
fundamentally new insights into the mechanisms driving brain state transitions
in healthy cognition and their alteration following injury.