A Generalized Rate Model for Neuronal Ensembles
There has been a long-standing controversy whether information in neuronal
networks is carried by the firing rate code or by the firing temporal code. The
current status of the rivalry between the two codes is briefly reviewed with
the recent studies such as the brain-machine interface (BMI). Then we have
proposed a generalized rate model based on the {\it finite} $N$-unit Langevin
model subjected to additive and/or multiplicative noises, in order to
understand the firing property of a cluster containing $N$ neurons. The
stationary property of the rate model has been studied with the use of the
Fokker-Planck equation (FPE) method. Our rate model is shown to yield various
kinds of stationary distributions such as the interspike-interval distribution
expressed by non-Gaussians including gamma, inverse-Gaussian-like and
log-normal-like distributions.
  The dynamical property of the generalized rate model has been studied with
the use of the augmented moment method (AMM) which was developed by the author
[H. Hasegawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 75 (2006) 033001]. From the macroscopic point
of view in the AMM, the property of the $N$-unit neuron cluster is expressed in
terms of {\it three} quantities; $\mu$, the mean of spiking rates of $R=(1/N)
\sum_i r_i$ where $r_i$ denotes the firing rate of a neuron $i$ in the cluster:
$\gamma$, averaged fluctuations in local variables ($r_i$): $\rho$,
fluctuations in global variable ($R$). We get equations of motions of the three
quantities, which show $\rho \sim \gamma/N$ for weak couplings. This implies
that the population rate code is generally more reliable than the single-neuron
rate code. Our rate model is extended and applied to an ensemble containing
multiple neuron clusters.