Graded, Dynamically Routable Information Processing with Synfire-Gated
  Synfire Chains
Coherent neural spiking and local field potentials are believed to be
signatures of the binding and transfer of information in the brain. Coherent
activity has now been measured experimentally in many regions of mammalian
cortex. Synfire chains are one of the main theoretical constructs that have
been appealed to to describe coherent spiking phenomena. However, for some
time, it has been known that synchronous activity in feedforward networks
asymptotically either approaches an attractor with fixed waveform and
amplitude, or fails to propagate. This has limited their ability to explain
graded neuronal responses. Recently, we have shown that pulse-gated synfire
chains are capable of propagating graded information coded in mean population
current or firing rate amplitudes. In particular, we showed that it is possible
to use one synfire chain to provide gating pulses and a second, pulse-gated
synfire chain to propagate graded information. We called these circuits
synfire-gated synfire chains (SGSCs). Here, we present SGSCs in which graded
information can rapidly cascade through a neural circuit, and show a
correspondence between this type of transfer and a mean-field model in which
gating pulses overlap in time. We show that SGSCs are robust in the presence of
variability in population size, pulse timing and synaptic strength. Finally, we
demonstrate the computational capabilities of SGSC-based information coding by
implementing a self-contained, spike-based, modular neural circuit that is
triggered by, then reads in streaming input, processes the input, then makes a
decision based on the processed information and shuts itself down.