Non-invasive biomarkers of fetal brain development reflecting prenatal
  stress: an integrative multi-scale multi-species perspective on data
  collection and analysis
Prenatal stress (PS) impacts early postnatal behavioural and cognitive
development. This process of 'fetal programming' is mediated by the effects of
the prenatal experience on the developing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)
axis and autonomic nervous system (ANS). The HPA axis is a dynamic system
regulating homeostasis, especially the stress response, and is highly sensitive
to adverse early life experiences. We review the evidence for the effects of PS
on fetal programming of the HPA axis and the ANS. We derive a multi-scale
multi-species approach to devising preclinical and clinical studies to identify
early non-invasively available pre- and postnatal biomarkers of these
programming effects. Such approach would identify adverse postnatal brain
developmental trajectories, a prerequisite for designing therapeutic
interventions. The multiple scales include the biomarkers reflecting changes in
the brain epigenome, metabolome, microbiome and the ANS activity gauged via an
array of advanced non-invasively obtainable properties of fetal heart rate
fluctuations. The proposed framework has the potential to reveal mechanistic
links between maternal stress during pregnancy and changes across these
physiological scales. Such biomarkers may hence be useful as early and
non-invasive predictors of neurodevelopmental trajectories influenced by the
PS. We conclude that studies into PS effects must be conducted on multiple
scales derived from concerted observations in multiple animal models and human
cohorts performed in an interactive and iterative manner and deploying machine
learning for data synthesis, identification and validation of the best
non-invasive biomarkers.