Task-Based Core-Periphery Organisation of Human Brain Dynamics
As a person learns a new skill, distinct synapses, brain regions, and
circuits are engaged and change over time. In this paper, we develop methods to
examine patterns of correlated activity across a large set of brain regions.
Our goal is to identify properties that enable robust learning of a motor
skill. We measure brain activity during motor sequencing and characterize
network properties based on coherent activity between brain regions. Using
recently developed algorithms to detect time-evolving communities, we find that
the complex reconfiguration patterns of the brain's putative functional modules
that control learning can be described parsimoniously by the combined presence
of a relatively stiff temporal core that is composed primarily of sensorimotor
and visual regions whose connectivity changes little in time and a flexible
temporal periphery that is composed primarily of multimodal association regions
whose connectivity changes frequently. The separation between temporal core and
periphery changes over the course of training and, importantly, is a good
predictor of individual differences in learning success. The core of
dynamically stiff regions exhibits dense connectivity, which is consistent with
notions of core-periphery organization established previously in social
networks. Our results demonstrate that core-periphery organization provides an
insightful way to understand how putative functional modules are linked. This,
in turn, enables the prediction of fundamental human capacities, including the
production of complex goal-directed behavior.