Paradoxical LTP maintenance with inhibition of protein synthesis and the
  proteasome suggests a novel protein synthesis requirement for early LTP
  reversal
The transition from early long-term potentiation (E-LTP) to late LTP (L-LTP)
involves protein synthesis and degradation. L-LTP is blocked by inhibiting
either protein synthesis or proteasome-dependent degradation prior to and
during a tetanic stimulus, but paradoxically, L-LTP is not blocked when
synthesis and degradation are inhibited simultaneously, suggesting
counter-acting positive and negative proteins regulate L-LTP. To investigate
this paradox, we modeled LTP at the Schaffer collateral synapse. Nine
differential equations describe the levels of positive and negative regulator
proteins (PP and NP) and transitions among five discrete synaptic states, a
basal state (BAS), three E-LTP states (EP1, EP2, ED), and a L-LTP state (LP). A
stimulus initiates the transition from BAS to EP1 and from EP1 to EP2,
initiates the synthesis of PP and NP, and activates the ubiquitin-proteasome
system (UPS). UPS mediates transitions of EP1 and EP2 to ED and the degradation
of NP. The conversion of E-LTP to L-LTP is mediated by a PP-dependent
transition from ED to LP. NP mediates reversal of EP2 to BAS. This model
simulates empirical observations: 1) normal L-LTP, 2) block by either
proteasome inhibitor or protein synthesis inhibitor alone, and 3) preservation
of L-LTP when both inhibitors are applied together. Elements of this abstract
model can be correlated with specific molecules and processes. Moreover, the
model makes testable predictions, such as a unique synaptic state ED that
precedes the transition to L-LTP, and a time window for the action of the UPS
(during the transitions from EP1 and EP2 to ED). Tests of these predictions
will provide insights into the processes of long-term synaptic plasticity.