Transformation of arbitrary distributions to the normal distribution
  with application to EEG test-retest reliability
Many variables in the social, physical, and biosciences, including
neuroscience, are non-normally distributed. To improve the statistical
properties of such data, or to allow parametric testing, logarithmic or logit
transformations are often used. Box-Cox transformations or ad hoc methods are
sometimes used for parameters for which no transformation is known to
approximate normality. However, these methods do not always give good agreement
with the Gaussian. A transformation is discussed that maps probability
distributions as closely as possible to the normal distribution, with exact
agreement for continuous distributions. To illustrate, the transformation is
applied to a theoretical distribution, and to quantitative
electroencephalographic (qEEG) measures from repeat recordings of 32 subjects
which are highly non-normal. Agreement with the Gaussian was better than using
logarithmic, logit, or Box-Cox transformations. Since normal data have
previously been shown to have better test-retest reliability than non-normal
data under fairly general circumstances, the implications of our transformation
for the test-retest reliability of parameters were investigated. Reliability
was shown to improve with the transformation, where the improvement was
comparable to that using Box-Cox. An advantage of the general transformation is
that it does not require laborious optimization over a range of parameters or a
case-specific choice of form.