Modulation in background music influences sustained attention
Background music is known to affect performance on cognitive tasks, possibly
due to temporal modulations in the acoustic signal, but little is known about
how music should be designed to aid performance. Since acoustic modulation has
been shown to shape neural activity in known networks, we chose to test the
effects of acoustic modulation on sustained attention, which requires activity
in these networks and is a common ingredient for success across many tasks. To
understand how specific aspects of background music influence sustained
attention, we manipulated the rate and depth of amplitude modulations imposed
on otherwise identical music. This produced stimuli that were musically and
acoustically identical except for a peak in the modulation spectrum that could
change intensity or shift location under manipulations of depth or rate
respectively. These controlled musical backgrounds were presented to
participants (total N = 677) during the sustained attention to response (SART)
task. In two experiments, we show performance benefits due to added modulation,
with best performance at 16 Hz (beta band) rate and higher modulation depths;
neighboring parameter settings did not produce this benefit. Further
examination of individual differences within our overall sample showed that
those with a high level of self-reported ADHD symptomaticity tended to perform
better with more intense beta modulation. These results suggest optimal
parameters for adding modulation to background music, which are consistent with
theories of oscillatory dynamics that relate auditory stimulation to behavior,
yet demonstrate the need for a personalized approach in creating functional
music for everyday use.