A Possible Link Between Pyriproxyfen and Microcephaly
The Zika virus is the primary suspect in the large increase in microcephaly
cases in 2015-6 in Brazil, however its role is unconfirmed despite individual
cases of viral infections found in neural tissue. Here we consider the
alternative that the insecticide pyriproxyfen, used in Brazilian drinking water
for mosquito control, may actually be the cause. Pyriproxifen is an analog of
juvenile hormone, which corresponds in mammals to regulatory molecules
including retinoic acid, a vitamin A metabolite, with which it has
cross-reactivity and whose application during development causes microcephaly.
Methoprene, another juvenile hormone analog approved as an insecticide has
metabolites that bind to the retinoid X receptor, and causes developmental
disorders in mammals. Isotretinoin is another example of a retinoid causing
microcephaly in human babies via activation of the retinoid X receptor.
Moreover, tests of pyriproxyfen by the manufacturer, Sumitomo, widely quoted as
giving no evidence for developmental toxicity, actually found some evidence for
such an effect, including low brain mass and arhinencephaly--incomplete
formation of the anterior cerebral hemispheres--in rat pups. Finally, the
pyriproxyfen use in Brazil is unprecedented--it has never before been applied
to a water supply on such a scale. Claims that it is not being used in Recife,
the epicenter of microcephaly cases, do not distinguish the metropolitan area
of Recife, where it is widely used, and the municipality, where it is not.
Given this combination of information we strongly recommend that the use of
pyriproxyfen in Brazil be suspended pending further investigation.