The Robustness and the Doubly-Preferential Attachment Simulation of the
  Consensus Connectome Dynamics of the Human Brain
The increasing quantity and quality of the publicly available human cerebral
diffusion MRI data make possible the study of the brain as it was unimaginable
before. The Consensus Connectome Dynamics (CCD) is a remarkable phenomenon that
was discovered by continuously decreasing the minimum confidence-parameter at
the graphical interface of the Budapest Reference Connectome Server
(\url{http://connectome.pitgroup.org}). The Budapest Reference Connectome
Server depicts the cerebral connections of $n=418$ subjects with a
frequency-parameter $k$: For any $k=1,2,...,n$ one can view the graph of the
edges that are present in at least $k$ connectomes. If parameter $k$ is
decreased one-by-one from $k=n$ through $k=1$ then more and more edges appear
in the graph, since the inclusion condition is relaxed. The surprising
observation is that the appearance of the edges is far from random: it
resembles a growing, complex structure, like a tree or a shrub (visualized on
\url{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxlyudPaVUE}). Here we examine the
robustness of the CCD phenomenon, and we show that it is almost independent of
the particular choice of the set of underlying individual connectomes, yielding
the CCD phenomenon. This result shows that the CCD phenomenon is very likely a
biological property of the human brain and not just a property of the data sets
examined. We also present a simulation that well-describes the growth of the
CCD structure: in our random graph model a doubly-preferential attachment
distribution is found to mimic the CCD: a new edge appear with a probability
proportional to the sum of the degrees of the endpoints of the new edge.