A hierarchical narrative framework for OCD
This paper gives an explanatory framework for obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD) based on a generative model of cognition. The framework is constructed
using the new concept of a 'formal narrative' which is a sequence of cognitive
states inferred from sense data. First we propose that human cognition uses a
hierarchy of narratives to predict changes in the natural and social
environment. Each layer in the hierarchy represents a distinct 'view of the
world', but it also contributes to a global unitary perspective. Second, the
generative models used for cognitive inference can create new narratives from
those states already experienced by an individual. We hypothesise that when a
threat is recognised, narratives are generated as a cognitive model of possible
threat scenarios. Using this framework, we suggest that OCD arises from a
dysfunction in sub-surface levels of inference while the global unitary
perspective remains intact. The failure of inference is felt as the external
world being 'not just right', and its automatic correction by the perceptual
system is experienced as compulsion. Ordering and symmetry obsessions are the
effects of the perceptual system trying to achieve precise inference. Checking
behaviour arises because the security system attempts to finesse inference as
part of its protection behaviour. Similarly, fear of harm and distressing
thoughts occur because the failure of inference results in an indistinct view
of the past or the future. A wide variety of symptoms in OCD is thus explained
by a single dysfunction.