Neural Population Coding for Effective Temporal Classification
Neural encoding plays an important role in faithfully describing the
temporally rich patterns, whose instances include human speech and
environmental sounds. For tasks that involve classifying such spatio-temporal
patterns with the Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), how these patterns are
encoded directly influence the difficulty of the task. In this paper, we
compare several existing temporal and population coding schemes and evaluate
them on both speech (TIDIGITS) and sound (RWCP) datasets. We show that, with
population neural codings, the encoded patterns are linearly separable using
the Support Vector Machine (SVM). We note that the population neural codings
effectively project the temporal information onto the spatial domain, thus
improving linear separability in the spatial dimension, achieving an accuracy
of 95\% and 100\% for TIDIGITS and RWCP datasets classified using the SVM,
respectively. This observation suggests that an effective neural coding scheme
greatly simplifies the classification problem such that a simple linear
classifier would suffice. The above datasets are then classified using the
Tempotron, an SNN-based classifier. SNN classification results agree with the
SVM findings that population neural codings help to improve classification
accuracy. Hence, other than the learning algorithm, effective neural encoding
is just as important as an SNN designed to recognize spatio-temporal patterns.
It is an often neglected but powerful abstraction that deserves further study.