An ALE meta-analytic comparison of verbal working memory tasks
Background: The n-back and Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test (PASAT) are
commonly used verbal working memory tasks that have partially overlapping uses
in clinical and experimental psychology. We performed three activation
likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analyses, comparing two load levels of the
n-back task (2-back, 3-back) to the PASAT and to each-other. These analyses
aimed to determine the involvement of cognitive and emotional brain regions for
these tasks. Results: We observed higher overall likelihood of activation the
frontal eye fields in the 3-back. The PASAT exhibited higher overall activation
in the bilateral supplementary motor areas (SMA), left supramarginal gyrus, and
left superior parietal lobule. Furthermore, the 3-back exhibited higher
activation in the right SMA, and anterior mid-cingulate cortex versus the
2-back, and the PASAT exhibited higher activation in a cluster near the right
premotor area versus the 2-back. A laterality effect was observed in the
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex between the PASAT (left) and 3-back(right).
These data suggest greater activation of regions traditionally associated with
the phonological loop during the PASAT, compared to the 2- and 3-back tasks.
Furthermore, individual ALE analyses suggest involvement of emotional
processing and salience network regions (insula, cingulate) in addition to the
well-established verbal working memory regions (Broca's region, bilateral SMA,
premotor, posterior parietal cortices) in all 3 tasks. Conclusions: Here we
identify regions activated by the PASAT, which has not been meta-analytically
reviewed prior to this study. Using ALE meta-analysis, we have also identified
meaningful differences in activation associated with specific cognitive and
emotional aspects of verbal working memory during these tasks.