Pre-stimulus oscillatory brain states and cognition: a theoretical
  approach
Spontaneous oscillations measured by local field potentials,
electroencephalograms and magnetoencephalograms exhibits variety of
oscillations spanning frrequency band (1Hz-100Hz) in animals and humans. Both
instantaneous power and phase of these ongoing oscillations have commonly been
observed to correlate with peristimulus processing in animals and humans.
However, despite of numerous attempts it is not clear whether the same
mechanisms can give rise to a range of oscillations as observed in vivo during
resting state spontaneous oscillatory activity of the brain. In this paper I
invetigate the spontaneous activity in the cortex. The paper attempts to
establish analytically the conjecture that under certain conditions, a neural
assembly can give rise to outputs that can be characterized by generalized
oscillatory functions. It is possible to validate the analytical predictions
with a neural mass model to show what the characteristic frequencies for such a
brain state should be if they have to respond to external stimuli though it is
not explored directly in the paper. In this paper we have attempted to show how
an oscillatory dynamics might arise from a combination of a feed-forward and
recurrent neural assembly. Following that we have shown how naturally some of
the EEG and MEG band activities in the pre-stimulus $\alpha$ ($\sim$ 10 Hz) can
be explained from the resulting neural dynamics operating on a limited capacity
cognitive systems. This provides a very important clue regarding how
pre-stimulus brain oscillatory dynamics generates a window to consciousness.