Neural (EEG) Response during Creation and Appreciation: A Novel Study
  with Hindustani Raga Music
What happens inside the performers brain when he is performing and composing
a particular raga. Are there some specific regions in brain which are activated
when an artist is creating or imaging a raga in his brain. Do the regions
remain the same when the artist is listening to the same raga sung by him.
These are the questions that perplexed neuroscientists for a long time. In this
study we strive to answer these questions by using latest state of the art
techniques to assess brain response. An EEG experiment was conducted for two
eminent performers of Indian classical music, when they mentally created the
imagery of a raga Jay Jayanti in their mind, as well as when they listened to
the same raga. The beauty of Hindustani music lies in the fact that the
musician is himself the composer and recreates the imagery of the raga in his
mind while performing, hence the scope of creative improvisations are immense.
The alpha and theta frequency rhythms were segregated from each of the time
series data and analyzed using robust non MFDXA technique to quantitatively
assess the degree of cross-correlation of each EEG frequency rhythm in
different combination of electrodes from frontal, occipital and temporal lobes.
A strong response was found in the occipital and fronto occipital region during
mental improvisation of the raga, which is an interesting revelation of this
study. Strong retentive features were obtained in regard to both alpha and
theta rhythms in musical listening in the fronto temporal and occipital
temporal region while the features were almost absent in the thinking part.
Further, other specific regions have been identified separately for the two
separate conditions in which the correlations among the different lobes were
the strongest.