Disruptive Behavior Disorder (DBD) Rating Scale for Georgian Population
In the presented study Parent/Teacher Disruptive Behavior Disorder (DBD)
rating scale based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
(DSM-IV-TR [APA, 2000]) which was developed by Pelham and his colleagues
(Pelham et al., 1992) was translated and adopted for assessment of childhood
behavioral abnormalities, especially ADHD, ODD and CD in Georgian children and
adolescents. The DBD rating scale was translated into Georgian language using
back translation technique by English language philologists and checked and
corrected by qualified psychologists and psychiatrist of Georgia. Children and
adolescents in the age range of 6 to 16 years (N 290; Mean Age 10.50, SD=2.88)
including 153 males (Mean Age 10.42, SD= 2.62) and 141 females (Mean Age 10.60,
SD=3.14) were recruited from different public schools of Tbilisi and the
Neurology Department of the Pediatric Clinic of the Tbilisi State Medical
University. Participants objectively were assessed via interviewing
parents/teachers and qualified psychologists in three different settings
including school, home and clinic. In terms of DBD total scores revealed
statistically significant differences between healthy controls (M=27.71,
SD=17.26) and children and adolescents with ADHD (M=61.51, SD= 22.79).
Statistically significant differences were found for inattentive subtype
between control (M=8.68, SD=5.68) and ADHD (M=18.15, SD=6.57) groups. In
general it was shown that children and adolescents with ADHD had high score on
DBD in comparison to typically developed persons. In the study also was
determined gender wise prevalence in children and adolescents with ADHD, ODD
and CD. The research revealed prevalence of males in comparison with females in
all investigated categories.