Cord-blood vitamin D level and night sleep duration in preschoolers in
  the EDEN mother-child birth cohort
Objective: 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) deficiency has been associated with
sleep disorders in adults. Only three cross-sectional studies were performed in
children and showed an association between 25OHD deficiency and both
obstructive sleep apnea syndrome and primary snoring. No longitudinal study has
been performed in children from the general population. We analyzed the
association between cord-blood vitamin D level at birth and night-sleep
duration trajectories for children between 2 and 5-6 years old in a
non-clinical cohort.Method: We included 264 children from the French EDEN
mother-child birth-cohort with both cord-blood 25OHD level determined by
radio-immunoassay at birth, and night-sleep trajectories for children between 2
and 5-6 years old obtained by the group-based trajectory modeling method.
Associations between 25OHD and sleep trajectories were assessed by multinomial
logistic regression adjusted for maternal and child characteristics.Results:
The trajectories short sleep (<10h30/night), medium-low sleep
(10h30-11h00/night), medium-high sleep ($\approx$11h30/night), long sleep
($\ge$11h30/night) and changing sleep (decreased from $\ge$11h30 to
10h30-11h00/night) represented 5%, 46%, 37%, 4% and 8% of the children,
respectively. The mean 25OHD level was 19 ng/ml (SD=11, range 3 to 63). It was
12 (SD=7), 20 (SD=11), 19 (SD=10), 14 (SD=7) and 16 (SD=8) ng/ml for children
with short, medium-low, medium-high, long and changing sleep trajectories,
respectively. On adjusted analysis, for each 1-ng/ml decrease in 25OHD level,
the odds of belonging to the short sleep versus medium-high sleep trajectory
was increased (odds ratio =1.12, 95% confidence interval [1.01-1.25]). We found
no other significant association between 25OHD level and other
trajectories.Conclusion: Low 25OHD level at birth may be associated with
increased probability of being a persistent short sleeper in preschool years.
These results need confirmation.