Can retinal ganglion cell dipoles seed iso-orientation domains in the
  visual cortex?
It has been argued that the emergence of roughly periodic orientation
preference maps (OPMs) in the primary visual cortex (V1) of carnivores and
primates can be explained by a so-called statistical connectivity model. This
model assumes that input to V1 neurons is dominated by feed-forward projections
originating from a small set of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). The typical
spacing between adjacent cortical orientation columns preferring the same
orientation then arises via Moir\'{e}-Interference between hexagonal ON/OFF RGC
mosaics. While this Moir\'{e}-Interference critically depends on long-range
hexagonal order within the RGC mosaics, a recent statistical analysis of RGC
receptive field positions found no evidence for such long-range positional
order. Hexagonal order may be only one of several ways to obtain spatially
repetitive OPMs in the statistical connectivity model. Here, we investigate a
more general requirement on the spatial structure of RGC mosaics that can seed
the emergence of spatially repetitive cortical OPMs, namely that angular
correlations between so-called RGC dipoles exhibit a spatial structure similar
to that of OPM autocorrelation functions. Both in cat beta cell mosaics as well
as primate parasol receptive field mosaics we find that RGC dipole angles are
spatially uncorrelated. To help assess the level of these correlations, we
introduce a novel point process that generates mosaics with realistic nearest
neighbor statistics and a tunable degree of spatial correlations of dipole
angles. Using this process, we show that given the size of available data sets,
the presence of even weak angular correlations in the data is very unlikely. We
conclude that the layout of ON/OFF ganglion cell mosaics lacks the spatial
structure necessary to seed iso-orientation domains in the primary visual
cortex.