Low-dimensional spike rate models derived from networks of adaptive
  integrate-and-fire neurons: Comparison and implementation
The spiking activity of single neurons can be well described by a nonlinear
integrate-and-fire model that includes somatic adaptation. When exposed to
fluctuating inputs sparsely coupled populations of these model neurons exhibit
stochastic collective dynamics that can be effectively characterized using the
Fokker-Planck equation. [...] Here we derive from that description four simple
models for the spike rate dynamics in terms of low-dimensional ordinary
differential equations using two different reduction techniques: one uses the
spectral decomposition of the Fokker-Planck operator, the other is based on a
cascade of two linear filters and a nonlinearity, which are determined from the
Fokker-Planck equation and semi-analytically approximated. We evaluate the
reduced models for a wide range of biologically plausible input statistics and
find that both approximation approaches lead to spike rate models that
accurately reproduce the spiking behavior of the underlying adaptive
integrate-and-fire population. [...] The low-dimensional models also well
reproduce stable oscillatory spike rate dynamics that is generated by recurrent
synaptic excitation and neuronal adaptation. [...] We have made available
implementations that allow to numerically integrate the low-dimensional spike
rate models as well as the Fokker-Planck partial differential equation in
efficient ways for arbitrary model parametrizations as open source software.
The derived spike rate descriptions retain a direct link to the properties of
single neurons, allow for convenient mathematical analyses of network states,
and are well suited for application in neural mass/mean-field based brain
network models.