Firing Rate Dynamics in Recurrent Spiking Neural Networks with Intrinsic
  and Network Heterogeneity
Heterogeneity of neural attributes has recently gained a lot of attention and
is increasing recognized as a crucial feature in neural processing. Despite its
importance, this physiological feature has traditionally been neglected in
theoretical studies of cortical neural networks. Thus, there is still a lot
unknown about the consequences of cellular and circuit heterogeneity in spiking
neural networks. In particular, combining network or synaptic heterogeneity and
intrinsic heterogeneity has yet to be considered systematically despite the
fact that both are known to exist and likely have significant roles in neural
network dynamics. In a canonical recurrent spiking neural network model, we
study how these two forms of heterogeneity lead to different distributions of
excitatory firing rates. To analytically characterize how these types of
heterogeneities affect the network, we employ a dimension reduction method that
relies on a combination of Monte Carlo simulations and probability density
function equations. We find that the relationship between intrinsic and network
heterogeneity has a strong effect on the overall level of heterogeneity of the
firing rates. Specifically, this relationship can lead to amplification or
attenuation of firing rate heterogeneity, and these effects depend on whether
the recurrent network is firing asynchronously or rhythmically firing. These
observations are captured with the aforementioned reduction method, and
furthermore simpler analytic descriptions based on this dimension reduction
method are developed. The final analytic descriptions provide compact and
descriptive formulas for how the relationship between intrinsic and network
heterogeneity determines the firing rate heterogeneity dynamics in various
settings.