Penalized matrix decomposition for denoising, compression, and improved
  demixing of functional imaging data
Calcium imaging has revolutionized systems neuroscience, providing the
ability to image large neural populations with single-cell resolution. The
resulting datasets are quite large, which has presented a barrier to routine
open sharing of this data, slowing progress in reproducible research. State of
the art methods for analyzing this data are based on non-negative matrix
factorization (NMF); these approaches solve a non-convex optimization problem,
and are effective when good initializations are available, but can break down
in low-SNR settings where common initialization approaches fail. Here we
introduce an approach to compressing and denoising functional imaging data. The
method is based on a spatially-localized penalized matrix decomposition (PMD)
of the data to separate (low-dimensional) signal from (temporally-uncorrelated)
noise. This approach can be applied in parallel on local spatial patches and is
therefore highly scalable, does not impose non-negativity constraints or
require stringent identifiability assumptions (leading to significantly more
robust results compared to NMF), and estimates all parameters directly from the
data, so no hand-tuning is required. We have applied the method to a wide range
of functional imaging data (including one-photon, two-photon, three-photon,
widefield, somatic, axonal, dendritic, calcium, and voltage imaging datasets):
in all cases, we observe ~2-4x increases in SNR and compression rates of
20-300x with minimal visible loss of signal, with no adjustment of
hyperparameters; this in turn facilitates the process of demixing the observed
activity into contributions from individual neurons. We focus on two
challenging applications: dendritic calcium imaging data and voltage imaging
data in the context of optogenetic stimulation. In both cases, we show that our
new approach leads to faster and much more robust extraction of activity from
the data.