Ambiguity invokes Creativity : looking through Quantum physics
Creativity, defined as the tendency to generate or recognize new ideas or
alternatives and to make connections between seemingly unrelated phenomena, is
too vast a horizon to be summed up in such a simple sentence. The extreme
abstractness of creativity makes it harder to quantify in its entirety. Yet, a
lot of efforts have been made both by psychologists and neurobiologists to
identify its signature. A general conformity is expressed in the Free
association theory, i.e. the more freely a persons conceptual nodes are
connected, the more divergent thinker (also, creative) he or she is. Also,
tolerance of ambiguity is found to be related to divergent thinking. In this
study, we approach the problem of creativity from a theoretical physics
standpoint. Theoretically, for the initial conceptual state, the next jump to
any other node is equally probable and non-deterministic. Repeated intervention
of external stimulus (analogous to a measurement) is responsible for such
jumps. And to study such a non-deterministic system with continuous
measurements, Quantum theory has been proven the most successful, time and
again. We suggest that this collection of nodes form a system which is likely
to be governed by quantum physics and specify the transformations which could
help explain the conceptual jump between states. Our argument, from the point
of view of physics is that the initial evolution of the creative process is
identical, person or field independent. To answer the next obvious question
about individual creativity, we hypothesize that the quantum system, under
continuous measurements (in the form of external stimuli) evolves with chaotic
dynamics, hence separating a painter from a musician. Possible experimental
methodology of these effects has also been suggested using ambiguous figures.