A distance constrained synaptic plasticity model of C. elegans neuronal
  network
Brain research has been driven by enquiry for principles of brain structure
organization and its control mechanisms. The neuronal wiring map of C. elegans,
the only complete connectome available till date, presents an incredible
opportunity to learn basic governing principles that drive structure and
function of its neuronal architecture. Despite its apparently simple nervous
system, C. elegans is known to possess complex functions. The neuronal
architecture forms an important underlying framework which specifies phenotypic
features associated to sensation, movement, conditioning and memory. In this
study, with the help of graph theoretical models, we investigated the C.
elegans neuronal network to identify network features that are critical for its
control. The 'driver neurons' are associated with important biological
functions such as reproduction, signalling processes and anatomical structural
development. We created 1D and 2D network models of C. elegans neuronal system
to probe the role of features that confer controllability and small world
nature. The simple 1D ring model is critically poised for the number of feed
forward motifs, neuronal clustering and characteristic path-length in response
to synaptic rewiring, indicating optimal rewiring. Using empirically observed
distance constraint in the neuronal network as a guiding principle, we created
a distance constrained synaptic plasticity model that simultaneously explains
small world nature, saturation of feed forward motifs as well as observed
number of driver neurons. The distance constrained model suggests optimum long
distance synaptic connections as a key feature specifying control of the
network.