Exploiting bilateral symmetry in brain lesion segmentation
Brain lesions, including stroke and tumours, have a high degree of
variability in terms of location, size, intensity and form, making automatic
segmentation difficult. We propose an improvement to existing segmentation
methods by exploiting the bilateral quasi-symmetry of healthy brains, which
breaks down when lesions are present. Specifically, we use nonlinear
registration of a neuroimage to a reflected version of itself ("reflective
registration") to determine for each voxel its homologous (corresponding) voxel
in the other hemisphere. A patch around the homologous voxel is added as a set
of new features to the segmentation algorithm. To evaluate this method, we
implemented two different CNN-based multimodal MRI stroke lesion segmentation
algorithms, and then augmented them by adding extra symmetry features using the
reflective registration method described above. For each architecture, we
compared the performance with and without symmetry augmentation, on the SISS
Training dataset of the Ischemic Stroke Lesion Segmentation Challenge (ISLES)
2015 challenge. Using affine reflective registration improves performance over
baseline, but nonlinear reflective registration gives significantly better
results: an improvement in Dice coefficient of 13 percentage points over
baseline for one architecture and 9 points for the other. We argue for the
broad applicability of adding symmetric features to existing segmentation
algorithms, specifically using nonlinear, template-free methods.