Early processing of consonance and dissonance in human auditory cortex
Pitch is the perceptual correlate of sound's periodicity and a fundamental
property of the auditory sensation. The interaction of two or more pitches
gives rise to a sensation that can be characterized by its degree of consonance
or dissonance. In the current study, we investigated the neuromagnetic
representations of consonant and dissonant musical dyads using a new model of
cortical activity, in an effort to assess the possible involvement of
pitch-specific neural mechanisms in consonance processing at early cortical
stages.
  In the first step of the study, we developed a novel model of cortical pitch
processing designed to explain the morphology of the pitch onset response
(POR), a pitch-specific subcomponent of the auditory evoked N100 component in
the human auditory cortex. The model explains the neural mechanisms underlying
the generation of the POR and quantitatively accounts for the relation between
its peak latency and the perceived pitch.
  Next, we applied magnetoencephalography (MEG) to record the POR as elicited
by six consonant and dissonant dyads. The peak latency of the POR was strongly
modulated by the degree of consonance within the stimuli; specifically, the
most dissonant dyad exhibited a POR with a latency that was about 30ms longer
than that of the most consonant dyad, an effect that greatly exceeds the
expected latency difference induced by a single pitch sound.
  Our model was able to predict the POR latency pattern observed in the
neuromagnetic data, and to generalize this prediction to additional dyads.
These results indicate that the neural mechanisms responsible for pitch
processing exhibit an intrinsic differential response to concurrent consonant
and dissonant pitch combinations, suggesting that the perception of consonance
and dissonance might be an emergent property of the pitch processing system in
human auditory cortex.