Identification of redundant and synergetic circuits in triplets of
  electrophysiological data
Neural systems are comprised of interacting units, and relevant information
regarding their function or malfunction can be inferred by analyzing the
statistical dependencies between the activity of each unit. Whilst correlations
and mutual information are commonly used to characterize these dependencies,
our objective here is to extend interactions to triplets of variables to better
detect and characterize dynamic information transfer. Our approach relies on
the measure of interaction information (II). The sign of II provides
information as to the extent to which the interaction of variables in triplets
is redundant (R) or synergetic (S). Here, based on this approach, we calculated
the R and S status for triplets of electrophysiological data recorded from
drug-resistant patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy in order to study
the spatial organization and dynamics of R and S close to the epileptogenic
zone (the area responsible for seizure propagation). In terms of spatial
organization, our results show that R matched the epileptogenic zone while S
was distributed more in the surrounding area. In relation to dynamics, R made
the largest contribution to high frequency bands (14-100Hz), whilst S was
expressed more strongly at lower frequencies (1-7Hz). Thus, applying
interaction information to such clinical data reveals new aspects of
epileptogenic structure in terms of the nature (redundancy vs. synergy) and
dynamics (fast vs. slow rhythms) of the interactions. We expect this
methodology, robust and simple, can reveal new aspects beyond pair-interactions
in networks of interacting units in other setups with multi-recording data sets
(and thus, not necessarily in epilepsy, the pathology we have approached here).