Evaluation and Ensembling of Methods for Reverse Engineering of Brain
  Connectivity from Imaging Data
Brain science is an evolving research area inviting great enthusiasm with its
potential for providing insights and thereby, preventing, and treating multiple
neuronal disorders affecting millions of patients. Discovery of relationships,
such as brain connectivity, is a major goal in basic, translational, and
clinical science. Algorithms for causal discovery are used in diverse fields
for tackling problems similar to the task of reconstruction of neuronal brain
connectivity. Our aim is to understand the strengths and limitations of these
methods, measure performance and its determinants, and provide insights to
enhance their performance and applicability. We performed extensive empirical
testing and benchmarking of reconstruction performance of several
state-of-the-art algorithms along with several ensemble techniques used to
combine them. Our experiments used a clear and broadly relevant gold standard
based on calcium fluorescence time series recordings of thousands of neurons
sampled from a previously validated realistic, neuronal model. Correlation,
entropy-based measures, Cross-Correlation for short time lags, and Generalized
Transfer Entropy had the best performances with area under ROC curve (AUC) in
the range of 0.7-0.8 even for smaller sample sizes of n = 100 to 1,000 and
converged quickly (at less than n = 1,000). Ensembles of best-performing
methods using random forests and neural networks generated AUC of ~0.9 with n =
10,000. Several important insights regarding parameter choice and sample size
were gained for guiding the experimental design of studies. Our data are also
supportive of the feasibility of reliably reconstructing complex neuronal
connectivity using existing techniques.