From dynamics to links: a sparse reconstruction of the topology of a
  neural network
One major challenge in neuroscience is the identification of interrelations
between signals reflecting neural activity and how information processing
occurs in the neural circuits. At the cellular and molecular level, mechanisms
of signal transduction have been studied intensively and a better knowledge and
understanding of some basic processes of information handling by neurons has
been achieved. In contrast, little is known about the organization and function
of complex neuronal networks. Experimental methods are now available to
simultaneously monitor electrical activity of a large number of neurons in real
time. Then, the qualitative and quantitative analysis of the spiking activity
of individual neurons is a very valuable tool for the study of the dynamics and
architecture of the neural networks. Such activity is not due to the sole
intrinsic properties of the individual neural cells but it is mostly
consequence of the direct influence of other neurons. The deduction of the
effective connectivity between neurons, whose experimental spike trains are
observed, is of crucial importance in neuroscience: first for the correct
interpretation of the electro-physiological activity of the involved neurons
and neural networks, and, for correctly relating the electrophysiological
activity to the functional tasks accomplished by the network. In this work we
propose a novel method for the identification of connectivity of neural
networks using recorded voltages. Our approach is based on the assumption that
the network has a topology with sparse connections. After a brief description
of our method we will report the performances and compare it to the
cross-correlation computed on the spike trains, that represents a gold standard
method in the field.