Diversity of meso-scale architecture in human and non-human connectomes
The brain's functional diversity is reflected in the meso-scale architecture
of its connectome, i.e. its division into clusters and communities of
topologically-related brain regions. The dominant view, and one that is
reinforced by current analysis techniques, is that communities are strictly
assortative and segregated from one another, purportedly for the purpose of
carrying out specialized information processing. Such a view, however,
precludes the possibility of non-assortative communities that could engender a
richer functional repertoire by allowing for a more complex set of
inter-community interactions. Here, we use weighted stochastic blockmodels to
uncover the meso-scale architecture of \emph{Drosophila}, mouse, rat, macaque,
and human connectomes. We confirm that while many communities are assortative,
others form core-periphery and disassortative structures, which in the human
better recapitulate observed patterns of functional connectivity and in the
mouse better recapitulate observed patterns of gene co-expression than other
community detection techniques. We define a set of network measures for
quantifying the diversity of community types in which brain regions
participate. Finally, we show that diversity is peaked in control and
subcortical systems in humans, and that individual differences in diversity
within those systems predicts cognitive performance on Stroop and Navon tasks.
In summary, our report paints a more diverse portrait of connectome meso-scale
structure and demonstrates its relevance for cognitive performance.