Generation mechanism of cell assembly to store information about hand
  recognition
A specific memory is stored in a cell assembly that is activated during fear
learning in mice; however, research regarding cell assemblies associated with
procedural and habit learning processes is lacking. In modeling studies,
simulations of the learning process for hand regard, which is a type of
procedural learning, resulted in the formation of cell assemblies. However, the
mechanisms through which the cell assemblies form and the information stored in
these cell assemblies remain unknown. In this paper, the relationship between
hand movements and weight changes during the simulated learning process for
hand regard was used to elucidate the mechanism through which inhibitory
weights are generated, which plays an important role in the formation of cell
assemblies. During the early training phase, trial and error attempts to bring
the hand into the field of view caused the generation of inhibitory weights,
and the cell assemblies self-organized from these inhibitory weights. The
information stored in the cell assemblies was estimated by examining the
contributions of the cell assemblies outputs to hand movements. During
sustained hand regard, the outputs from these cell assemblies moved the hand
into the field of view, using hand-related inputs almost exclusively.
Therefore, infants are likely able to select the inputs associated with their
hand (that is, distinguish between their hand and others), based on the
information stored in the cell assembly, and move their hands into the field of
view during sustained hand regard.