A neuro-inspired system for online learning and recognition of parallel
  spike trains, based on spike latency and heterosynaptic STDP
Humans perform remarkably well in many cognitive tasks including pattern
recognition. However, the neuronal mechanisms underlying this process are not
well understood. Nevertheless, artificial neural networks, inspired in brain
circuits, have been designed and used to tackle spatio-temporal pattern
recognition tasks. In this paper we present a multineuronal spike pattern
detection structure able to autonomously implement online learning and
recognition of parallel spike sequences (i.e., sequences of pulses belonging to
different neurons/neural ensembles). The operating principle of this structure
is based on two spiking/synaptic neurocomputational characteristics: spike
latency, that enables neurons to fire spikes with a certain delay and
heterosynaptic plasticity, that allows the own regulation of synaptic weights.
From the perspective of the information representation, the structure allows
mapping a spatio-temporal stimulus into a multidimensional, temporal, feature
space. In this space, the parameter coordinate and the time at which a neuron
fires represent one specific feature. In this sense, each feature can be
considered to span a single temporal axis. We applied our proposed scheme to
experimental data obtained from a motor inhibitory cognitive task. The test
exhibits good classification performance, indicating the adequateness of our
approach. In addition to its effectiveness, its simplicity and low
computational cost suggest a large scale implementation for real time
recognition applications in several areas, such as brain computer interface,
personal biometrics authentication or early detection of diseases.