One-time learning in a biologically-inspired Salience-affected
  Artificial Neural Network (SANN)
Standard artificial neural networks (ANNs), loosely based on the structure of
columns in the cortex, model key cognitive aspects of brain function such as
learning and classification, but do not model the affective (emotional) aspects
of brain function. However these are a key feature of the brain (the associated
`ascending systems' have been hard-wired into the brain by evolutionary
processes). These emotions are associated with memories when neuromodulators
such as dopamine and noradrenaline affect entire patterns of synaptically
activated neurons. Here we present a bio-inspired ANN architecture which we
call a Salience-Affected Neural Network (SANN), which, at the same time as
local network processing of task-specific information, includes non-local
salience (significance) effects responding to an input salience signal. During
pattern recognition, inputs similar to the salience-affected inputs in the
training data will produce reverse salience signals corresponding to those
experienced when the memories were laid down. In addition, training with
salience affects the weights of connections between nodes, and improves the
overall accuracy of a classification of images similar to the salience-tagged
input after just a single iteration of training. Note that we are not aiming to
present an accurate model of the biological salience system; rather we present
an artificial neural network inspired by those biological systems in the human
brain, that has unique strengths.