A learning rule for place fields in a cortical model: theta phase
  precession as a network effect
We show that a model of the hippocampus introduced recently by Scarpetta,
Zhaoping & Hertz ([2002] Neural Computation 14(10):2371-96), explains the theta
phase precession phenomena. In our model, the theta phase precession comes out
as a consequence of the associative-memory-like network dynamics, i.e. the
network's ability to imprint and recall oscillatory patterns, coded both by
phases and amplitudes of oscillation. The learning rule used to imprint the
oscillatory states is a natural generalization of that used for static patterns
in the Hopfield model, and is based on the spike time dependent synaptic
plasticity (STDP), experimentally observed. In agreement with experimental
findings, the place cell's activity appears at consistently earlier phases of
subsequent cycles of the ongoing theta rhythm during a pass through the place
field, while the oscillation amplitude of the place cell's firing rate
increases as the animal approaches the center of the place field and decreases
as the animal leaves the center. The total phase precession of the place cell
is lower than 360 degrees, in agreement with experiments. As the animal enters
a receptive field the place cell's activity comes slightly less than 180
degrees after the phase of maximal pyramidal cell population activity, in
agreement with the findings of Skaggs et al (1996). Our model predicts that the
theta phase is much better correlated with location than with time spent in the
receptive field. Finally, in agreement with the recent experimental findings of
Zugaro et al (2005), our model predicts that theta phase precession persists
after transient intra-hippocampal perturbation.