Mechanisms underlying different onset patterns of focal seizures
Focal seizures are episodes of pathological brain activity that appear to
arise from a localised area of the brain. The onset patterns of focal seizure
activity have been studied intensively, and they have largely been
distinguished into two types - low amplitude fast oscillations (LAF), or high
amplitude spikes (HAS). Here we explore whether these two patterns arise from
fundamentally different mechanisms. Here, we use a previously established
computational model of neocortical tissue, and validate it as an adequate model
using clinical recordings of focal seizures. We then reproduce the two onset
patterns in their most defining properties and investigate the possible
mechanisms underlying the different focal seizure onset patterns in the model.
We show that the two patterns are associated with different mechanisms at the
spatial scale of a single ECoG electrode. The LAF onset is initiated by
independent patches of localised activity, which slowly invade the surrounding
tissue and coalesce over time. In contrast, the HAS onset is a global, systemic
transition to a coexisting seizure state triggered by a local event. We find
that such a global transition is enabled by an increase in the excitability of
the "healthy" surrounding tissue, which by itself does not generate seizures,
but can support seizure activity when incited. In our simulations, the
difference in surrounding tissue excitability also offers a simple explanation
of the clinically reported difference in surgical outcomes. Finally, we
demonstrate in the model how changes in tissue excitability could be
elucidated, in principle, using active stimulation. Taken together, our
modelling results suggest that the excitability of the tissue surrounding the
seizure core may play a determining role in the seizure onset pattern, as well
as in the surgical outcome.