Locking of correlated neural activity to ongoing oscillations
Population-wide oscillations are ubiquitously observed in mesoscopic signals
of cortical activity. In these network states a global oscillatory cycle
modulates the propensity of neurons to fire. Synchronous activation of neurons
has been hypothesized to be a separate channel of signal processing information
in the brain. A salient question is therefore if and how oscillations interact
with spike synchrony and in how far these channels can be considered separate.
Experiments indeed showed that correlated spiking co-modulates with the static
firing rate and is also tightly locked to the phase of beta-oscillations. While
the dependence of correlations on the mean rate is well understood in
feed-forward networks, it remains unclear why and by which mechanisms
correlations tightly lock to an oscillatory cycle. We here demonstrate that
such correlated activation of pairs of neurons is qualitatively explained by
periodically-driven random networks. We identify the mechanisms by which
covariances depend on a driving periodic stimulus. Mean-field theory combined
with linear response theory yields closed-form expressions for the
cyclostationary mean activities and pairwise zero-time-lag covariances of
binary recurrent random networks. Two distinct mechanisms cause time-dependent
covariances: the modulation of the susceptibility of single neurons (via the
external input and network feedback) and the time-varying variances of single
unit activities. For some parameters, the effectively inhibitory recurrent
feedback leads to resonant covariances even if mean activities show
non-resonant behavior. Our analytical results open the question of
time-modulated synchronous activity to a quantitative analysis.