Monosynaptic inference via finely-timed spikes
Observations of finely-timed spike relationships in population recordings are
often used to support partial reconstruction of neural microcircuit diagrams.
Here fine-timescale components of paired spike train interactions are isolated
and subsequently attributed to synaptic parameters. Recent perturbation studies
strengthen the case for such inferences, yet the complete set of measurements
needed to calibrate statistical models are unavailable. To address this gap,
{we study features of pairwise spiking in a large-scale {\it in vivo} dataset
where presynaptic neurons were explicitly decoupled from network activity by
juxtacellular stimulation. We then develop biophysical models of paired spike
trains to reproduce the phenomenology of monosynaptic interactions observed in
those data, including both fine-timescale spike-spike correlations and the
irregular firing found {\it in vivo}.} We use simulated data generated from
these biophysical models to study the inference of small synaptic changes from
spike data, despite the presence of rapidly-varying background network
fluctuations. A particular focus is the justification and application of a
nonparametric separation of timescale principle, based on conditional
inference, to implement synaptic inference. We develop a correspondence between
classes of stochastic integrate-and-fire neurons and nonparametric inference in
the context of microcircuit inference. A secondary goal is to initiate a
critical exploration of neurostatistical assumptions in terms of biophysical
mechanisms, particularly with regards to the challenging but arguably
fundamental issue of fast, unobservable nonstationarities in background
dynamics.