Dynamical signatures of structural connectivity damage to a model of the
  brain posed at criticality
Synchronization of brain activity fluctuations is believed to represent
communication between spatially distant neural processes. These inter-areal
functional interactions develop in the background of a complex network of
axonal connections linking cortical and sub-cortical neurons, termed the human
"structural connectome". Theoretical considerations and experimental evidence
support the view that the human brain can be modeled as a system operating at a
critical point between ordered (sub-critical) and disordered (super-critical)
phases. Here, we explore the hypothesis that pathologies resulting from brain
injury of different etiology are related to the model of a critical brain. For
this purpose, we investigate how damage to the integrity of the structural
connectome impacts on the signatures of critical dynamics. Adopting a hybrid
modeling approach combining an empirical weighted network of human structural
connections with a conceptual model of critical dynamics, we show that lesions
located at highly transited connections progressively displace the model
towards the sub-critical regime. The topological properties of the nodes and
links are of less importance when considered independently of their weight in
the network. We observe that damage to midline hubs such as the middle and
posterior cingulate cortex is most crucial for the disruption of criticality in
the model. However, a similar effect can be achieved by targeting less
transited nodes and links whose connection weights add up to an equivalent
amount. This implies that brain pathology does not necessarily arise due to
insult targeted at well-connected areas and that inter- subject variability
could obscure lesions located at non-hub regions. Finally, we discuss the
predictions of our model in the context of clinical studies of traumatic brain
injury and neurodegenerative disorders.