Towards a theory of cortical columns: From spiking neurons to
  interacting neural populations of finite size
Neural population equations such as neural mass or field models are widely
used to study brain activity on a large scale. However, the relation of these
models to the properties of single neurons is unclear. Here we derive an
equation for several interacting populations at the mesoscopic scale starting
from a microscopic model of randomly connected generalized integrate-and-fire
neuron models. Each population consists of 50 -- 2000 neurons of the same type
but different populations account for different neuron types. The stochastic
population equations that we find reveal how spike-history effects in
single-neuron dynamics such as refractoriness and adaptation interact with
finite-size fluctuations on the population level. Efficient integration of the
stochastic mesoscopic equations reproduces the statistical behavior of the
population activities obtained from microscopic simulations of a full spiking
neural network model. The theory describes nonlinear emergent dynamics like
finite-size-induced stochastic transitions in multistable networks and
synchronization in balanced networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The
mesoscopic equations are employed to rapidly simulate a model of a local
cortical microcircuit consisting of eight neuron types. Our theory establishes
a general framework for modeling finite-size neural population dynamics based
on single cell and synapse parameters and offers an efficient approach to
analyzing cortical circuits and computations.