Brief wide-field photostimuli evoke and modulate oscillatory
  reverberating activity in cortical networks
Cell assemblies manipulation by optogenetics is pivotal to advance
neuroscience and neuroengineering. In in vivo applications, photostimulation
often broadly addresses a population of cells simultaneously, leading to
feed-forward and to reverberating responses in recurrent microcircuits. The
former arise from direct activation of targets downstream, and are
straightforward to interpret. The latter are consequence of feedback
connectivity and may reflect a variety of time-scales and complex dynamical
properties. We investigated wide-field photostimulation in cortical networks in
vitro, employing substrate-integrated microelectrode arrays and long-term
cultured neuronal networks. We characterized the effect of brief light pulses,
while restricting the expression of channelrhodopsin to principal neurons. We
evoked robust reverberating responses, oscillating in the physiological gamma
frequency range, and found that such a frequency could be reliably manipulated
varying the light pulse duration, not its intensity. By pharmacology,
mathematical modelling, and intracellular recordings, we conclude that gamma
oscillations likely emerge as in vivo from the excitatory-inhibitory interplay
and that, unexpectedly, the light stimuli transiently facilitate excitatory
synaptic transmission. Of relevance for in vitro models of (dys)functional
cortical microcircuitry and in vivo manipulations of cell assemblies, we give
for the first time evidence of network-level consequences of the alteration of
synaptic physiology by optogenetics