Subthreshold signal encoding in coupled FitzHugh-Nagumo neurons
Despite intensive research, the mechanisms underlying how neurons encode
external inputs remain poorly understood. Recent work has focused on the
response of a single neuron to a weak, subthreshold periodic signal. By
simulating the FitzHugh-Nagumo stochastic model and then using a symbolic
method to analyze the firing activity of the neuron, preferred and infrequent
spike patterns (defined by the relative timing of the spikes) were detected,
whose probabilities encode information about the signal. As not individual
neurons in isolation but neuronal populations are responsible for the emergence
of complex behaviors, a relevant question is whether this coding mechanism is
robust when the neuron is not isolated. We study how a second neuron, which
does not perceive the subthreshold signal, affects the detection and the
encoding of the signal, done by the first neuron. Through simulations of two
coupled FitzHugh-Nagumo neurons we show that the coding mechanism is indeed
robust, as the neuron that perceives the signal fires a spike train that has
symbolic patterns whose probabilities depend on the features of the signal.
Moreover, we show that the second neuron facilitates the detection of the
signal, by lowering the firing threshold of the first neuron. This in turn
decreases the internal noise level need to fire the spikes that encode the
signal. We also show that the probabilities of the symbolic patterns achieve
maximum or minimum values when the period of the external signal is close to
(or is half of) the mean firing period of the neuron.