Quantum Cognition: The possibility of processing with nuclear spins in
  the brain
The possibility that quantum processing with nuclear spins might be operative
in the brain is proposed and then explored. Phosphorus is identified as the
unique biological element with a nuclear spin that can serve as a qubit for
such putative quantum processing - a neural qubit - while the phosphate ion is
the only possible qubit-transporter. We identify the "Posner molecule",
$\text{Ca}_9 (\text{PO}_4)_6$, as the unique molecule that can protect the
neural qubits on very long times and thereby serve as a (working)
quantum-memory. A central requirement for quantum-processing is quantum
entanglement. It is argued that the enzyme catalyzed chemical reaction which
breaks a pyrophosphate ion into two phosphate ions can quantum entangle pairs
of qubits. Posner molecules, formed by binding such phosphate pairs with
extracellular calcium ions, will inherit the nuclear spin entanglement. A
mechanism for transporting Posner molecules into presynaptic neurons during a
"kiss and run" exocytosis, which releases neurotransmitters into the synaptic
cleft, is proposed. Quantum measurements can occur when a pair of Posner
molecules chemically bind and subsequently melt, releasing a shower of
intra-cellular calcium ions that can trigger further neurotransmitter release
and enhance the probability of post-synaptic neuron firing. Multiple entangled
Posner molecules, triggering non-local quantum correlations of neuron firing
rates, would provide the key mechanism for neural quantum processing.
Implications, both in vitro and in vivo, are briefly mentioned.