Residual Information of Previous Decision Affects Evidence Accumulation
  in Current Decision
Bias in perceptual decisions comes to pass when the advance knowledge
colludes with the current sensory evidence in support of the final choice. The
literature on decision making suggests two main hypotheses to account for this
kind of bias: internal bias signals are derived from (a) the residual of motor
response-related signals, and (b) the sensory information residues of the
decisions that we made in the past. Beside these hypotheses, a credible
hypothesis proposed by this study to explain the cause of decision biasing,
suggests that the decision-related neuron can make use of the residual
information of the previous decision for the current decision. We demonstrate
the validity of this assumption, first by performing behavioral experiments
based on the two-alternative forced-choice (TAFC) discrimination of motion
direction paradigms and then, we modified the pure drift-diffusion model (DDM)
based on accumulation to the bound mechanism to account for the sequential
effect. In both cases, the trace of the previous trial influences the current
decision. Results indicate that the probability of being correct in a current
decision increases if it is in line with the previously made decision. Also,
the model that keeps the previous decision information provides a better fit to
the behavioral data. Our findings suggest that the state of a decision variable
which is represented in the activity of decision-related neurons after crossing
the bound (in the previous decision) can accumulate with the decision variable
for the current decision in consecutive trials.