Resolving Structure in Human Brain Organization: Identifying Mesoscale
  Organization in Weighted Network Representations
Human brain anatomy and function display a combination of modular and
hierarchical organization, suggesting the importance of both cohesive
structures and variable resolutions in the facilitation of healthy cognitive
processes. However, tools to simultaneously probe these features of brain
architecture require further development. We propose and apply a set of methods
to extract cohesive structures in network representations of brain connectivity
using multi-resolution techniques. We employ a combination of soft
thresholding, windowed thresholding, and resolution in community detection,
that enable us to identify and isolate structures associated with different
weights. One such mesoscale structure is bipartivity, which quantifies the
extent to which the brain is divided into two partitions with high connectivity
between partitions and low connectivity within partitions. A second,
complementary mesoscale structure is modularity, which quantifies the extent to
which the brain is divided into multiple communities with strong connectivity
within each community and weak connectivity between communities. Our methods
lead to multi-resolution curves of these network diagnostics over a range of
spatial, geometric, and structural scales. For statistical comparison, we
contrast our results with those obtained for several benchmark null models. Our
work demonstrates that multi-resolution diagnostic curves capture complex
organizational profiles in weighted graphs. We apply these methods to the
identification of resolution-specific characteristics of healthy weighted graph
architecture and altered connectivity profiles in psychiatric disease.