Resting-state functional connectivity-based biomarkers and functional
  MRI-based neurofeedback for psychiatric disorders: a challenge for developing
  theranostic biomarkers
Psychiatric research has been hampered by an explanatory gap between
psychiatric symptoms and their neural underpinnings, which has resulted in poor
treatment outcomes. This situation has prompted us to shift from symptom-based
diagnosis to data-driven diagnosis, aiming to redefine psychiatric disorders as
disorders of neural circuitry. Promising candidates for data-driven diagnosis
include resting-state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI)-based biomarkers.
Although biomarkers have been developed with the aim of diagnosing patients and
predicting the efficacy of therapy, the focus has shifted to the identification
of biomarkers that represent therapeutic targets, which would allow for more
personalized treatment approaches. This type of biomarker (i.e., theranostic
biomarker) is expected to elucidate the disease mechanism of psychiatric
conditions and to offer an individualized neural circuit-based therapeutic
target based on the neural cause of a condition. To this end, researchers have
developed rs-fcMRI-based biomarkers and investigated a causal relationship
between potential biomarkers and disease-specific behavior using functional MRI
(fMRI)-based neurofeedback on functional connectivity. In this review, we
introduce recent approach for creating a theranostic biomarker, which consists
mainly of two parts: (i) developing an rs-fcMRI-based biomarker that can
predict diagnosis and/or symptoms with high accuracy, and (ii) the introduction
of a proof-of-concept study investigating the relationship between normalizing
the biomarker and symptom changes using fMRI-based neurofeedback. In parallel
with the introduction of recent studies, we review rs-fcMRI-based biomarker and
fMRI-based neurofeedback, focusing on the technological improvements and
limitations associated with clinical use.