REM sleep complicates period adding bifurcations from monophasic to
  polyphasic sleep behavior in a sleep-wake regulatory network model for human
  sleep
The structure of human sleep changes across development as it consolidates
from the polyphasic sleep of infants to the single nighttime sleep period
typical in adults. Across this same developmental period, time scales of the
homeostatic sleep drive, the physiological drive to sleep that increases with
time spent awake, also change and presumably govern the transition from
polyphasic to monophasic sleep behavior. Using a physiologically-based,
sleep-wake regulatory network model for human sleep, we investigated the
dynamics of wake, rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and non-REM (NREM) sleep
during this transition by varying the homeostatic sleep drive time constants.
Previously, we introduced an algorithm for constructing a one-dimensional
circle map that represents the dynamics of the full sleep-wake network model.
By tracking bifurcations in the piecewise continuous circle map as the
homeostatic sleep drive time constants are varied, we establish evidence for a
border collision bifurcation that results in period-adding-like behavior in the
number of sleep cycles per day. Interestingly, this bifurcation is preceded by
bifurcations in the number of REM bouts per sleep cycle that exhibit truncated
period-adding-like behavior. The interaction of these bifurcations in numbers
of sleep episodes and numbers of REM bouts per sleep episode generate
non-monotonic variation in sleep cycle patterns as well as quasi-periodic
patterns during the transition from polyphasic to monophasic sleep behavior.
This analysis may have implications for understanding changes in sleep in early
childhood when preschoolers transition from napping to non-napping behavior,
and the wide interindividual variation observed during this transition.