Excitable Scale Free Networks
When a simple excitable system is continuously stimulated by a Poissonian
external source, the response function (mean activity versus stimulus rate)
generally shows a linear saturating shape. This is experimentally verified in
some classes of sensory neurons, which accordingly present a small dynamic
range (defined as the interval of stimulus intensity which can be appropriately
coded by the mean activity of the excitable element), usually about one or two
decades only. The brain, on the other hand, can handle a significantly broader
range of stimulus intensity, and a collective phenomenon involving the
interaction among excitable neurons has been suggested to account for the
enhancement of the dynamic range. Since the role of the pattern of such
interactions is still unclear, here we investigate the performance of a
scale-free (SF) network topology in this dynamic range problem. Specifically,
we study the transfer function of disordered SF networks of excitable
Greenberg-Hastings cellular automata. We observe that the dynamic range is
maximum when the coupling among the elements is critical, corroborating a
general reasoning recently proposed. Although the maximum dynamic range yielded
by general SF networks is slightly worse than that of random networks, for
special SF networks which lack loops the enhancement of the dynamic range can
be dramatic, reaching nearly five decades. In order to understand the role of
loops on the transfer function we propose a simple model in which the density
of loops in the network can be gradually increased, and show that this is
accompanied by a gradual decrease of dynamic range.