Stress-induced analgesia in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain
  and healthy controls
Introduction: Individuals with chronic musculoskeletal pain show impairments
in their pain-modulatory capacity. Stress-induced analgesia (SIA) is a paradigm
of endogenous pain inhibition mainly tested in animals. It has not been tested
in patients with chronic pain despite the important role of stress in pain
modulation and the chronicity process. Methods: SIA was tested in 22 patients
with chronic musculoskeletal pain and 18 healthy participants matched for age
and gender. Pain thresholds, pain tolerance and suprathreshold pain sensitivity
were examined before and after a cognitive stressor. Additionally, chronic
stress levels, pain catastrophizing and pain characteristics were assessed as
potential modulating factors. Results: Patients with chronic musculoskeletal
pain compared to healthy controls showed significantly impaired SIA
(F(1,37)=5.63, p=.02) for pain thresholds, but not pain tolerance
(F(1,37)=0.05, p=.83) and stress-induced hyperalgesia (SIH) to suprathreshold
pain ratings (F(1,37)=7.76, p=.008). Patients (r(22)=-0.50, p=.05) but not
controls (r(18)=-0.39, p=.13) with high catastrophizing had low SIA as assessed
by pain thresholds. In controls suprathreshold pain ratings were significantly
positively correlated with catastrophizing (r(18)=0.57, p=.03) and life-time
stress exposure (r(18)=0.54, p=.03). In patients neither catastrophizing
(r(22)=0.21, p=.34) nor stress exposure (r(22)=0.34, p=.34) were associated
with suprathreshold SIH. Discussion: Our data suggest impairments of SIA and
SIH in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain. Catastrophizing was
associated with deficient SIA in the patients and higher pain ratings in
controls. High life time stress also increased pain ratings in the controls.