Relaxation and self-sustained oscillations in the time elapsed neuron
  network model
The time elapsed model describes the firing activity of an homogeneous
assembly of neurons thanks to the distribution of times elapsed since the last
discharge. It gives a mathematical description of the probability density of
neurons structured by this time. In an earlier work, based on generalized
relative entropy methods, it is proved that for highly or weakly connected
networks the model exhibits relaxation to the steady state and for moderately
connected networks it is obtained numerical evidence of appearance of
self-sustained periodic solutions.
  Here, we go further and, using the particular form of the model, we quantify
the regime where relaxation to a stationary state occurs in terms of the
network connectivity. To introduce our methodology, we first consider the case
where the neurons are not connected and we give a new statement showing that
total asynchronous firing of neurons appears asymptotically. In a second step,
we consider the case with connections and give a low connectivity condition
that still leads to asynchronous firing. Our low connectivity condition is
somehow sharp because we can give an example, when this condition is not
fulfilled, where synchronous rhythmic activity occurs. Indeed, we are able to
build several explicit families of periodic solutions. Our construction is
fully nonlinear and the resynchronization of the neural activity in the network
does not follow from bifurcation analysis. It relies on an algebraically
nonlinear boundary condition that occurs in the model.These analytic results
are compared with numerical simulations under broader hypotheses and shown to
be robust.