Coupling-Induced Population Synchronization in An Excitatory Population
  of Subthreshold Izhikevich Neurons
We consider an excitatory population of subthreshold Izhikevich neurons which
exhibit noise-induced firings. By varying the coupling strength $J$, we
investigate population synchronization between the noise-induced firings which
may be used for efficient cognitive processing such as sensory perception,
multisensory binding, selective attention, and memory formation. As $J$ is
increased, rich types of population synchronization (e.g., spike, burst, and
fast spike synchronization) are found to occur. Transitions between population
synchronization and incoherence are well described in terms of an order
parameter $\cal{O}$. As a final step, the coupling induces oscillator death
(quenching of noise-induced spikings) because each neuron is attracted to a
noisy equilibrium state. The oscillator death leads to a transition from firing
to non-firing states at the population level, which may be well described in
terms of the time-averaged population spike rate $\overline{R}$. In addition to
the statistical-mechanical analysis using $\cal{O}$ and $\overline{R}$, each
population and individual state are also characterized by using the techniques
of nonlinear dynamics such as the raster plot of neural spikes, the time series
of the membrane potential, and the phase portrait. We note that population
synchronization of noise-induced firings may lead to emergence of synchronous
brain rhythms in a noisy environment, associated with diverse cognitive
functions.