The Frequent Subgraphs of the Connectome of the Human Brain
In mapping the human structural connectome, we are in a very fortunate
situation: one can compute and compare graphs, describing the cerebral
connections between the very same, anatomically identified small regions of the
gray matter among hundreds of human subjects. The comparison of these graphs
has led to numerous recent results, as the (i) discovery that women's
connectomes have deeper and richer connectivity-related graph parameters like
those of men, or (ii) the description of more and less conservatively connected
lobes and cerebral regions, and (iii) the discovery of the phenomenon of the
Consensus Connectome Dynamics.
  Today one of the greatest challenges of brain science is the description and
modeling of the circuitry of the human brain. For this goal, we need to
identify sub-circuits that are present in almost all human subjects and those,
which are much less frequent: the former sub-circuits most probably have
functions with general importance, the latter sub-circuits are probably related
to the individual variability of the brain structure and functions. The present
contribution describes the frequent connected subgraphs (instead of
sub-circuits) of at most 6 edges in the human brain. We analyze these frequent
graphs and also examine sex differences in these graphs: we demonstrate
numerous connected sub-graphs that are more frequent in female or the male
connectome. While our results describe subgraphs, instead of sub-circuits, we
need to note that all macroscopic sub-circuits correspond to an underlying
connected subgraph.
  Our data source is the public release of the Human Connectome Project, and we
are applying the data of 426 human subjects in this study.