Temporal structure in neuronal activity during working memory in Macaque
  parietal cortex
A number of cortical structures are reported to have elevated single unit
firing rates sustained throughout the memory period of a working memory task.
How the nervous system forms and maintains these memories is unknown but
reverberating neuronal network activity is thought to be important. We studied
the temporal structure of single unit (SU) activity and simultaneously recorded
local field potential (LFP) activity from area LIP in the inferior parietal
lobe of two awake macaques during a memory-saccade task. Using multitaper
techniques for spectral analysis, which play an important role in obtaining the
present results, we find elevations in spectral power in a 50--90 Hz (gamma)
frequency band during the memory period in both SU and LFP activity. The
activity is tuned to the direction of the saccade providing evidence for
temporal structure that codes for movement plans during working memory. We also
find SU and LFP activity are coherent during the memory period in the 50--90 Hz
gamma band and no consistent relation is present during simple fixation.
Finally, we find organized LFP activity in a 15--25 Hz frequency band that may
be related to movement execution and preparatory aspects of the task. Neuronal
activity could be used to control a neural prosthesis but SU activity can be
hard to isolate with cortical implants. As the LFP is easier to acquire than SU
activity, our finding of rich temporal structure in LFP activity related to
movement planning and execution may accelerate the development of this medical
application.