Unsupervised decoding of long-term, naturalistic human neural recordings
  with automated video and audio annotations
Fully automated decoding of human activities and intentions from direct
neural recordings is a tantalizing challenge in brain-computer interfacing.
Most ongoing efforts have focused on training decoders on specific, stereotyped
tasks in laboratory settings. Implementing brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) in
natural settings requires adaptive strategies and scalable algorithms that
require minimal supervision. Here we propose an unsupervised approach to
decoding neural states from human brain recordings acquired in a naturalistic
context. We demonstrate our approach on continuous long-term
electrocorticographic (ECoG) data recorded over many days from the brain
surface of subjects in a hospital room, with simultaneous audio and video
recordings. We first discovered clusters in high-dimensional ECoG recordings
and then annotated coherent clusters using speech and movement labels extracted
automatically from audio and video recordings. To our knowledge, this
represents the first time techniques from computer vision and speech processing
have been used for natural ECoG decoding. Our results show that our
unsupervised approach can discover distinct behaviors from ECoG data, including
moving, speaking and resting. We verify the accuracy of our approach by
comparing to manual annotations. Projecting the discovered cluster centers back
onto the brain, this technique opens the door to automated functional brain
mapping in natural settings.