Is there contextuality in behavioral and social systems?
Most behavioral and social experiments aimed at revealing contextuality are
confined to cyclic systems with binary outcomes. In quantum physics, this broad
class of systems includes as special cases
Klyachko-Can-Binicioglu-Shumovsky-type, Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bell-type, and
Suppes-Zanotti-Leggett-Garg-type systems. The theory of contextuality known as
Contextuality-by-Default allows one to define and measure contextuality in all
such system, even if there are context-dependent errors in measurements, or if
something in the contexts directly interacts with the measurements. This makes
the theory especially suitable for behavioral and social systems, where direct
interactions of "everything with everything" are ubiquitous. For cyclic systems
with binary outcomes the theory provides necessary and sufficient conditions
for noncontextuality, and these conditions are known to be breached in certain
quantum systems. We review several behavioral and social data sets (from polls
of public opinion to visual illusions to conjoint choices to word combinations
to psychophysical matching), and none of these data provides any evidence for
contextuality. Our working hypothesis is that this may be a broadly applicable
rule: behavioral and social systems are noncontextual, i.e., all "contextual
effects" in them result from the ubiquitous dependence of response
distributions on the elements of contexts other than the ones to which the
response is presumably or normatively directed.