Neuron as a reward-modulated combinatorial switch and a model of
  learning behavior
This paper proposes a neuronal circuitry layout and synaptic plasticity
principles that allow the (pyramidal) neuron to act as a "combinatorial
switch". Namely, the neuron learns to be more prone to generate spikes given
those combinations of firing input neurons for which a previous spiking of the
neuron had been followed by a positive global reward signal. The reward signal
may be mediated by certain modulatory hormones or neurotransmitters, e.g., the
dopamine. More generally, a trial-and-error learning paradigm is suggested in
which a global reward signal triggers long-term enhancement or weakening of a
neuron's spiking response to the preceding neuronal input firing pattern. Thus,
rewards provide a feedback pathway that informs neurons whether their spiking
was beneficial or detrimental for a particular input combination. The neuron's
ability to discern specific combinations of firing input neurons is achieved
through a random or predetermined spatial distribution of input synapses on
dendrites that creates synaptic clusters that represent various permutations of
input neurons. The corresponding dendritic segments, or the enclosed individual
spines, are capable of being particularly excited, due to local sigmoidal
thresholding involving voltage-gated channel conductances, if the segment's
excitatory and absence of inhibitory inputs are temporally coincident. Such
nonlinear excitation corresponds to a particular firing combination of input
neurons, and it is posited that the excitation strength encodes the
combinatorial memory and is regulated by long-term plasticity mechanisms. It is
also suggested that the spine calcium influx that may result from the
spatiotemporal synaptic input coincidence may cause the spine head actin
filaments to undergo mechanical (muscle-like) contraction, with the ensuing
cytoskeletal deformation transmitted to the axon initial segment where it
may...