Neuronal Synchronization Can Control the Energy Efficiency of
  Inter-Spike Interval Coding
The role of synchronous firing in sensory coding and cognition remains
controversial. While studies, focusing on its mechanistic consequences in
attentional tasks, suggest that synchronization dynamically boosts sensory
processing, others failed to find significant synchronization levels in such
tasks. We attempt to understand both lines of evidence within a coherent
theoretical framework. We conceptualize synchronization as an independent
control parameter to study how the postsynaptic neuron transmits the average
firing activity of a presynaptic population, in the presence of
synchronization. We apply the Berger-Levy theory of energy efficient
information transmission to interpret simulations of a Hodgkin-Huxley-type
postsynaptic neuron model, where we varied the firing rate and synchronization
level in the presynaptic population independently. We find that for a fixed
presynaptic firing rate the simulated postsynaptic interspike interval
distribution depends on the synchronization level and is well-described by a
generalized extreme value distribution. For synchronization levels of 15% to
50%, we find that the optimal distribution of presynaptic firing rate,
maximizing the mutual information per unit cost, is maximized at ~30%
synchronization level. These results suggest that the statistics and energy
efficiency of neuronal communication channels, through which the input rate is
communicated, can be dynamically adapted by the synchronization level.