Quantitative aspects of L-type calcium currents
Calcium currents in neurons and muscle cells have been classified as being
one of 5 types of which four, L, N, P/Q and R were said to be high threshold
and one, T, was designated low threshold. This review focuses on quantitative
aspects of L-type currents. L-type channels are now distinguished according to
their structure as one of four main subtypes 1.1-1.4. L-type calcium currents
play many fundamental roles in cellular dynamical processes including
pacemaking in neurons and cardiac cells, the activation of transcription
factors involved in synaptic plasticity and in immune cells. The
half-activation potentials of L-type currents have been ascribed values as low
as -50 mV and as high as near 0 mV. The inactivation of I_L has been found to
be both voltage (VDI) and calcium-dependent (CDI) and the latter component may
involve calcium-induced calcium release. CDI is often an important aspect of
dynamical models of cell electrophysiology. We describe the basic components in
modeling I_L including activation and both voltage and calcium dependent
inactivation and the two main approaches to determining the current. We review,
by means of tables of values from over 65 representative studies, the various
details of the dynamical properties associated with I_L that have been found
experimentally or employed in the last 25 years in deterministic modeling in
various nervous system and cardiac cells. Distributions and statistics of
several parameters related to activation and inactivation are obtained. There
are few reliable experimental data on L-type calcium current kinetics for cells
at physiological calcium ion concentrations. Neurons are divided approximately
into two groups with experimental half-activation potentials.