Individual Differences in Dynamic Functional Brain Connectivity Across
  the Human Lifespan
Individual differences in brain functional networks may be related to complex
personal identifiers, including health, age, and ability. Understanding and
quantifying these differences is a necessary first step towards developing
predictive methods derived from network topology. Here, we present a method to
quantify individual differences in brain functional dynamics by applying
hypergraph analysis, a method from dynamic network theory. Using a summary
metric derived from the hypergraph formalism---hypergraph cardinality---we
investigate individual variations in two separate and complementary data sets.
The first data set ("multi-task") consists of 77 individuals engaging in four
consecutive cognitive tasks. We observed that hypergraph cardinality exhibits
variation across individuals while remaining consistent within individuals
between tasks; moreover, one of the memory tasks evinced a marginally
significant correspondence between hypergraph cardinality and age. This finding
motivated a similar analysis of the second data set ("age-memory"), in which 95
individuals of varying ages performed a memory task with a similar structure to
the multi-task memory task. With the increased age range in the age-memory data
set, the correlation between hypergraph cardinality and age correspondence
becomes significant. We discuss these results in the context of the well-known
finding linking age with network structure, and suggest that age-related
changes in brain function can be better understood by taking an integrative
approach that incorporates information about the dynamics of functional
interactions.