Visuospatial short-term memory and dorsal visual gray matter volume
Visual short-term memory (VSTM) is an important cognitive capacity that
varies across the healthy adult population and is affected in several
neurodevelopmental disorders. It has been suggested that neuroanatomy places
limits on this capacity through a map architecture that creates competition for
cortical space. This suggestion has been supported by the finding that primary
visual (V1) gray matter volume (GMV) is positively associated with VSTM
capacity. However, evidence from neurodevelopmental disorders suggests that the
dorsal visual stream more broadly is vulnerable and atypical volumes of other
map-containing regions may therefore play a role. For example, Turner syndrome
is associated with concomitantly reduced volume of the right intraparietal
sulcus (IPS) and deficits in VSTM. As posterior IPS regions (IPS0-2) contains
topographic maps, together this suggests that posterior IPS volumes may also
associate with VSTM. In this study, we assessed VSTM using two tasks, as well
as a composite score, and used voxel-based morphometry of T1-weighted magnetic
resonance images to assess GMV in V1 and right IPS0-2 in 32 healthy young
adults (16 female). For comparison with previous work, we also assessed
associations between VSTM and voxel-wise GMV on a whole-brain basis. We found
that total brain volume (TBV) significantly correlated with VSTM, and that
correlations between VSTM and regional GMV were substantially reduced in
strength when controlling for TBV. In our whole-brain analysis, we found that
VSTM was associated with GMV of clusters centered around the right putamen and
left Rolandic operculum, though only when TBV was not controlled for. Our
results suggest that VSTM ability is unlikely to be accounted for by the volume
of an individual cortical region and may instead rely on distributed structural
properties.