Signal detection in extracellular neural ensemble recordings using
  higher criticism
Information processing in the brain is conducted by a concerted action of
multiple neural populations. Gaining insights in the organization and dynamics
of such populations can best be studied with broadband intracranial recordings
of so-called extracellular field potential, reflecting neuronal spiking as well
as mesoscopic activities, such as waves, oscillations, intrinsic large
deflections, and multiunit spiking activity. Such signals are critical for our
understanding of how neuronal ensembles encode sensory information and how such
information is integrated in the large networks underlying cognition. The
aforementioned principles are now well accepted, yet the efficacy of extracting
information out of the complex neural data, and their employment for improving
our understanding of neural networks, critically depends on the mathematical
processing steps ranging from simple detection of action potentials in noisy
traces - to fitting advanced mathematical models to distinct patterns of the
neural signal potentially underlying intra-processing of information, e.g.
interneuronal interactions. Here, we present a robust strategy for detecting
signals in broadband and noisy time series such as spikes, sharp waves and
multi-unit activity data that is solely based on the intrinsic statistical
distribution of the recorded data. By using so-called higher criticism - a
second-level significance testing procedure comparing the fraction of observed
significances to an expected fraction under the global null - we are able to
detect small signals in correlated noisy time-series without prior filtering,
denoising or data regression. Results demonstrate the efficiency and
reliability of the method and versatility over a wide range of experimental
conditions and suggest the appropriateness of higher criticism to characterize
neuronal dynamics without prior manipulation of the data.