Diffusion MRI microstructure models with in vivo human brain Connectom
  data: results from a multi-group comparison
A large number of mathematical models have been proposed to describe the
measured signal in diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
infer properties about the white matter microstructure. However, a head-to-head
comparison of DW-MRI models is critically missing in the field. To address this
deficiency, we organized the "White Matter Modeling Challenge" during the
International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging (ISBI) 2015 conference. This
competition aimed at identifying the DW-MRI models that best predict unseen DW
data. in vivo DW-MRI data was acquired on the Connectom scanner at the
A.A.Martinos Center (Massachusetts General Hospital) using gradients strength
of up to 300 mT/m and a broad set of diffusion times. We focused on assessing
the DW signal prediction in two regions: the genu in the corpus callosum, where
the fibres are relatively straight and parallel, and the fornix, where the
configuration of fibres is more complex. The challenge participants had access
to three-quarters of the whole dataset, and their models were ranked on their
ability to predict the remaining unseen quarter of data. In this paper we
provide both an overview and a more in-depth description of each evaluated
model, report the challenge results, and infer trends about the model
characteristics that were associated with high model ranking. This work
provides a much needed benchmark for DW-MRI models. The acquired data and model
details for signal prediction evaluation are provided online to encourage a
larger scale assessment of diffusion models in the future.