Decoding the circuitry of consciousness: from local microcircuits to
  brain-scale networks
Identifying the physiological processes underlying the emergence and
maintenance of consciousness is one of the most fundamental problems of
neuroscience, with implications ranging from fundamental neuroscience to the
treatment of patients with disorders of consciousness (DOC). One major
challenge is to understand how cortical circuits at drastically different
spatial scales, from local networks to brain-scale networks, operate in concert
to enable consciousness, and how those processes are impaired in DOC patients.
In this review, we attempt to relate available neurophysiological and clinical
data with existing theoretical models of consciousness, while linking the
micro- and macro-circuit levels. First, we address the relationships between
awareness and wakefulness on the one hand, and cortico-cortical, and
thalamo-cortical connectivity on the other hand. Second, we discuss the role of
three main types of GABAergic interneurons in specific circuits responsible for
the dynamical re-organization of functional networks. Third, we explore
advances in the functional role of nested oscillations for neural
synchronization and communication, emphasizing the importance of the balance
between local (high-frequency) and distant (low-frequency) activity for
efficient information processing. The clinical implications of these
theoretical considerations are presented. We propose that such cellular-scale
mechanisms could extend current theories of consciousness.