Measuring Consciousness
A measurement based formula for consciousness, C, as a function of time t, is
constructed. The formula depends on identifying a natural relevant
self-generated, time-dependent dynamical process inherent in any entity. For
human beings the relevant dynamical process identified is the ensemble of brain
waves, observed in EEG measurements, that are represented in the model by their
measured time dependent correlation functions. These correlation functions
define the accessible dynamical state of the brain at any moment of time. From
them a time dependent probability function, P(t), is extracted by using a
mathematical identity. According to information theory, -P(t) log P(t), is a
measure of the information contained in the brain waves. Consciousness, C, is
defined by this information theory formula: it is not localized, does not
depend on specific hardwire details of the brain, but reflects the information
content present in brain waves. Justifications, based on observational
evidence, are given for the formula and it is shown that C reflects the degree
of "awareness" that a person has at a given moment of time. The model explains
the observed time delay between when a brain wave is seen to initiate an action
and when there is awareness that the action has been initiated, in terms of the
way brain waves processes information. Some testable consequences of the model,
including the role dreaming sleep plays in long term memory storage, are
discussed. It is also shown that non living entities have C=0.