Quantifying the strength of structural connectivity underlying
  functional brain networks
In recent years, there has been strong interest in neuroscience studies to
investigate brain organization through networks of brain regions that
demonstrate strong functional connectivity (FC). These networks are extracted
from observed fMRI using data-driven analytic methods such as independent
component analysis (ICA). A notable limitation of these FC methods is that they
do not provide any information on the underlying structural connectivity (SC),
which is believed to serve as the basis for interregional interactions in brain
activity. We propose a new statistical measure of the strength of SC (sSC)
underlying FC networks obtained from data-driven methods. The sSC measure is
developed using information from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data, and can
be applied to compare the strength of SC across different FC networks.
Furthermore, we propose a reliability index for data-driven FC networks to
measure the reproducibility of the networks through re-sampling the observed
data. To perform statistical inference such as hypothesis testing on the sSC,
we develop a formal variance estimator of sSC based a spatial semivariogram
model with a novel distance metric. We demonstrate the performance of the sSC
measure and its estimation and inference methods with simulation studies. For
real data analysis, we apply our methods to a multimodal imaging study with
resting-state fMRI and DTI data from 20 healthy controls and 20 subjects with
major depressive disorder. Results show that well-known resting state networks
all demonstrate higher SC within the network as compared to the average
structural connections across the brain. We also found that sSC is positively
associated with the reliability index, indicating that the FC networks that
have stronger underlying SC are more reproducible across samples.