A computational model describing the interplay of basal ganglia and
  subcortical background oscillations during working memory processes
Working memory is responsible for the temporary manipulation and storage of
information to support reasoning, learning and comprehension in the human
brain. Background oscillations from subcortical structures may drive a gating
or switching mechanism during working memory computations, and different
frequency bands may be associated with different processes while working memory
tasks are performed. There are three well-known relationships between working
memory processes and specific frequency bands of subcortical oscillations,
namely: the storage of new information which correlates positively with
beta/gamma-frequency band oscillations, the maintenance of information while
ignoring irrelevant stimulation which is directly linked to theta-frequency
band oscillations, and the clearance of memory which is associated with
alpha-frequency band oscillations. Although these relationships between working
memory processes and subcortical background oscillations have been observed, a
full explanation of these phenomena is still needed. This paper will aid
understanding of the working memory's operation and phase switching by
proposing a novel and biophysical realistic mathematical-computational
framework which unifies the generation of subcortical background oscillations,
the role of basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits and the influence of
dopamine in the selection of working memory operations and phases: this has
never been attempted before.