A mathematical model for distinguishing bias from sensitivity effects in
  multialternative detection tasks
Studies investigating the neural bases of cognitive phenomena such as
perception, attention and decision-making increasingly employ multialternative
task designs. It is essential in such designs to distinguish the neural
correlates of behavioral choices arising from changes in perceptual factors,
such as enhanced sensitivity to sensory information, from those arising from
changes in decisional factors, such as a stronger bias for a particular
response or choice (choice bias). To date such a distinction is not possible
with established approaches. Thus, there is a critical need for a theoretical
approach that distinguishes the effects of changes in sensitivity from those of
changes in choice bias in multialternative tasks. Here, we introduce a
mathematical model that decouples choice bias from perceptual sensitivity
effects in multialternative detection tasks: multialternative tasks that
incorporate catch trials to measure the ability to detect one among multiple
(potential) stimuli or stimulus features. By formulating the perceptual
decision in a novel, multidimensional signal detection framework, our model
identifies the distinct effects of bias and sensitivity on behavioral choices.
With a combination of analytical and numerical approaches, we demonstrate that
model parameters (sensitivity, bias) are estimated reliably and uniquely, even
in tasks involving arbitrarily large numbers of alternatives. Model simulations
revealed that ignoring choice bias or performance during catch trials produced
systematically inaccurate estimates of perceptual sensitivity, a finding that
has important implications for interpreting behavioral data in multialternative
detection and cued attention tasks. The model will find important application
in identifying the effects of neural perturbations (stimulation or
inactivation) on an animal's perception in multialternative attention and
decision-making tasks.