Death and rebirth of neural activity in sparse inhibitory networks
In this paper, we clarify the mechanisms underlying a general phenomenon
present in pulse-coupled heterogeneous inhibitory networks: inhibition can
induce not only suppression of the neural activity, as expected, but it can
also promote neural reactivation. In particular, for globally coupled systems,
the number of firing neurons monotonically reduces upon increasing the strength
of inhibition (neurons' death). However, the random pruning of the connections
is able to reverse the action of inhibition, i.e. in a sparse network a
sufficiently strong synaptic strength can surprisingly promote, rather than
depress, the activity of the neurons (neurons' rebirth). Thus the number of
firing neurons reveals a minimum at some intermediate synaptic strength. We
show that this minimum signals a transition from a regime dominated by the
neurons with higher firing activity to a phase where all neurons are
effectively sub-threshold and their irregular firing is driven by current
fluctuations. We explain the origin of the transition by deriving an analytic
mean field formulation of the problem able to provide the fraction of active
neurons as well as the first two moments of their firing statistics. The
introduction of a synaptic time scale does not modify the main aspects of the
reported phenomenon. However, for sufficiently slow synapses the transition
becomes dramatic, the system passes from a perfectly regular evolution to an
irregular bursting dynamics. In this latter regime the model provides
predictions consistent with experimental findings for a specific class of
neurons, namely the medium spiny neurons in the striatum.