Increasing the Analytical Accessibility of Multishell and Diffusion
  Spectrum Imaging Data Using Generalized Q-Sampling Conversion
Many diffusion MRI researchers, including the Human Connectome Project (HCP),
acquire data using multishell (e.g., WU-Minn consortium) and diffusion spectrum
imaging (DSI) schemes (e.g., USC-Harvard consortium). However, these data sets
are not readily accessible to high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI)
analysis methods that are popular in connectomics analysis. Here we introduce a
scheme conversion approach that transforms multishell and DSI data into their
corresponding HARDI representations, thereby empowering HARDI-based analytical
methods to make use of data acquired using non-HARDI approaches. This method
was evaluated on both phantom and in-vivo human data sets by acquiring
multishell, DSI, and HARDI data simultaneously, and comparing the converted
HARDI, from non-HARDI methods, with the original HARDI data. Analysis on the
phantom shows that the converted HARDI from DSI and multishell data strongly
predicts the original HARDI (correlation coefficient > 0.9). Our in-vivo study
shows that the converted HARDI can be reconstructed by constrained spherical
deconvolution, and the fiber orientation distributions are consistent with
those from the original HARDI. We further illustrate that our scheme conversion
method can be applied to HCP data, and the converted HARDI do not appear to
sacrifice angular resolution. Thus this novel approach can benefit all
HARDI-based analysis approaches, allowing greater analytical accessibility to
non-HARDI data, including data from the HCP.