CARE-rCortex: a Matlab toolbox for the analysis of
  CArdio-REspiratory-related activity in the Cortex
Background: Although cardio-respiratory (CR) system is generally controlled
by the autonomic nervous system, interactions between the cortex and these
primary functions are receiving an increasing interest in neurosciences. New
method: In general, the timing of such internally paced events (e.g. heartbeats
or respiratory cycles) may display a large variability. For the analysis of
such CR event-related EEG potentials, a baseline must be correctly associated
to each cycle of detected events. The open-source toolbox CARE-rCortex provides
an easy-to-use interface to detect CR events, define baselines, and analyse in
time-frequency (TF) domain the CR-based EEG potentials. Results: CARE-rCortex
provides some practical tools to detect and validate these CR events. Users can
define baselines time-locked to a phase of respiratory or heart cycle. A
statistical test has also been integrated to highlight significant points of
the TF maps with respect to the baseline. We illustrate the use of CARE-rCortex
with the analysis of two real cardio-respiratory datasets. Comparison with
existing methods: Compared to other open-source toolboxes, CARE-rCortex allows
users to automatically detect CR events, to define and check baselines for each
detected event. Different baseline normalizations can be used in the TF
analysis of EEG epochs. Conclusions: The analysis of CR-related EEG activities
could provide valuable information about cognitive or pathological brain
states. CARE-rCortex runs in Matlab as a plug-in of the EEGLAB software, and it
is publicly available at https://github.com/FannyGrosselin/CARE-rCortex.