The interplay between long- and short-range temporal correlations shapes
  cortex dynamics across vigilance states
Increasing evidence suggests that cortical dynamics during wake exhibits
long-range temporal correlations suitable to integrate inputs over extended
periods of time to increase the signal-to-noise ratio in decision-making and
working memory tasks. Accordingly, sleep has been suggested as a state
characterized by a breakdown of long-range correlations; detailed measurements
of neuronal timescales that support this view, however, have so far been
lacking. Here we show that the long timescales measured at the individual
neuron level in freely-behaving rats during the awake state are abrogated
during non-REM (NREM) sleep. We provide evidence for the existence of two
distinct states in terms of timescale dynamics in cortex: one which is
characterized by long timescales which dominate during wake and REM sleep, and
a second one characterized by the absence of long-range temporal correlations
which characterizes NREM sleep. We observe that both timescale regimes can
co-exist and, in combination, lead to an apparent gradual decline of long
timescales during extended wake which is restored after sleep. Our results
provide a missing link between the observed long timescales in individual
neuron fluctuations during wake and the reported absence of long-term
correlations during deep sleep in EEG and fMRI studies. They furthermore
suggest a network-level function of sleep, to reorganize cortical networks
towards states governed by slow cortex dynamics to ensure optimal function for
the time awake.