Stimuli reduce the dimensionality of cortical activity
The activity of ensembles of simultaneously recorded neurons can be
represented as a set of points in the space of firing rates. Even though the
dimension of this space is equal to the ensemble size, neural activity can be
effectively localized on smaller subspaces. The dimensionality of the neural
space is an important determinant of the computational tasks supported by the
neural activity. Here, we investigate the dimensionality of neural ensembles
from the sensory cortex of alert rats during period of ongoing (inter-trial)
and stimulus-evoked activity. We find that dimensionality grows linearly with
ensemble size, and grows significantly faster during ongoing activity compared
to evoked activity. We explain these results using a spiking network model
based on a clustered architecture. The model captures the difference in growth
rate between ongoing and evoked activity and predicts a characteristic scaling
with ensemble size that could be tested in high-density multi-electrode
recordings. Moreover, the model predicts the existence of an upper bound on
dimensionality. This upper bound is inversely proportional to the amount of
pair-wise correlations and, compared to a homogeneous network without clusters,
it is larger by a factor equal to the number of clusters. The empirical
estimation of such bounds depends on the number and duration of trials.
Together, these results provide a framework to analyze neural dimensionality in
alert animals, its behavior under stimulus presentation, and its theoretical
dependence on ensemble size, number of clusters, and pair-wise correlations in
spiking network models.