Temporal connection signatures of human brain networks after stroke
Plasticity after stroke is a complex phenomenon initiated by the functional
reorganization of the brain, especially in the perilesional tissue. At
macroscales, the reestablishment of segregation within the affected hemisphere
and interhemispheric integration has been extensively documented in the
reconfiguration of brain networks. However, the local connection mechanisms
generating such global network changes are still largely unknown as well as
their potential to better predict the outcome of patients. To address this
question, time must be considered as a formal variable of the problem and not
just a simple repeated observation. Here, we hypothesize that the temporal
formation of basic connection blocks such as intermodule edges and intramodule
triangles would be sufficient to determine the large-scale brain reorganization
after stroke. To test our hypothesis, we adopted a statistical approach based
on temporal exponential random graph models (tERGMs). First, we validated the
overall performance on synthetic time-varying networks simulating the
reconfiguration process after stroke. Then, using longitudinal functional
connectivity measurements of resting-state brain activity, we showed that both
the formation of triangles within the affected hemisphere and interhemispheric
links are sufficient to reproduce the longitudinal brain network changes from 2
weeks to 1 year after the stroke. Finally, we showed that these temporal
connection mechanisms are over-expressed in the subacute phase as compared to
healthy controls and predicted the chronic language and visual outcome
respectively in patients with subcortical and cortical lesions, whereas static
approaches failed to do so. Our results indicate the importance of considering
time-varying connection properties when modeling dynamic complex systems and
provide fresh insights into the network mechanisms of stroke recovery.