Statistical mechanics of neocortical interactions: Nonlinear columnar
  electroencephalography
Columnar firings of neocortex, modeled by a statistical mechanics of
neocortical interactions (SMNI), are investigated for conditions of oscillatory
processing at frequencies consistent with observed electroencephalography
(EEG). Direct calculations of the Euler-Lagrange (EL) equations which are
derived from functional variation of the SMNI probability distribution, giving
most likely states of the system, are performed for three prototypical Cases,
dominate excitatory columnar firings, dominate inhibitory columnar firings, and
in-between balanced columnar firings, with and without a Centering mechanism
(CM) (based on observed changes in stochastic background of presynaptic
interactions) which pulls more stable states into the physical firings ranges.
Only states with the CM exhibit robust support for these oscillatory states.
These calculations are repeated for the visual neocortex, which has twice as
many neurons/minicolumn as other neocortical regions. These calculations argue
that robust columnar support for common EEG activity requires the same columnar
presynaptic parameter necessary for ideal short-term memory (STM). It is
demonstrated at this columnar scale, that both shifts in local columnar
presynaptic background as well as local or global regional oscillatory
interactions can effect or be affected by attractors that have detailed
experimental support to be considered states of STM. Including the CM with
other proposed mechanisms for columnar-glial interactions and for
glial-presynaptic background interactions, a path for future investigations is
outlined to test for quantum interactions, enhanced by magnetic fields from
columnar EEG, that directly support cerebral STM and computation by controlling
presynaptic noise.