A Layperson Introduction to the Quantum Approach to Humor
Despite our familiarity with and fondness of humor, until relatively recently
very little was known about the underlying psychology of this complex and
nuanced phenomenon. Recently, however, cognitive psychologists have begun
investigating how people understand humor and why we find certain things funny.
This chapter introduces a new cognitive approach to modeling humor that we
refer to as the 'quantum approach', which will be explained here in intuitive,
non-mathematical terms later (a formal treatment can be found in Gabora &
Kitto, 2017). What makes the quantum approach a promising candidate for a
theory of humor is that it can be useful for representing states of ambiguity,
and it defines states and variables with reference to a context. Contextuality
and ambiguity both play a key role in humor, which often hangs on an ambiguous
word, phrase, or situation that might not make sense, or even be socially
acceptable outside the specific context of the joke. The quantum approach does
not attempt to explain all aspects of humor, such as the contagious quality of
laughter, or why children tease each other, or why people might find it funny
when someone is hit in the face with a pie (and laugh even if they know it will
happen in advance); what it aims to do is to mathematically represent the
underlying cognitive process of "getting" a joke. After briefly overviewing the
relevant historical antecedents of the quantum approach and other related
approaches in cognitive psychology, we present the theoretical basis of our
approach, and outline a recent study that provides empirical support for it.