Impact of axonal delay on structure development in a Linsker type
  network
In his seminal, three paper series, Linsker provided a mechanism for how
random activity in the visual pathway could give rise to many of the features
observed experimentally in the early stages of visual processing. Owing to the
complexity of multilayer models, an implicit assumption in Linsker's and
subsequent papers has been that propagation delay is homogeneous and,
consequently, plays little functional role in neural behaviour. In this paper,
we relax this assumption to examine the impact of axonal distance dependent
propagation delay on neural learning. We show that propagation delay induces
lowpass filtering by dispersing the arrival times of spikes from presynaptic
neurons, providing a natural correlation cancellation mechanism for distal
connections. The cutoff frequency decreases as the radial propagation delay
within a layer, relative to propagation delay between the layers, increases,
introducing an upper limit on temporal resolution. Given that the postsynaptic
potential also acts as a lowpass filter, we show that the effective time
constant of each should enable the processing of similar scales of temporal
information. This result has implications for the visual system, in which
receptive field size and, thus, radial propagation delay, increases with
eccentricity. Furthermore, the network response is frequency dependent since
higher frequencies require increased input amplitude to compensate for
attenuation. This concords with frequency dependent contrast sensitivity in the
visual system, which changes with eccentricity and receptive field size.
Finally, we determine the eigenfunctions of both Linsker's network, and the
network with propagation delay. We show that the addition of propagation delay
stabilizes the leading eigenfunction to changes in homeostatic parameters, and
hence stabilizes the resulting receptive field structure.