Real-Time Cortical Simulation on Neuromorphic Hardware
Real-time simulation of a large-scale biologically representative spiking
neural network is presented, through the use of a heterogeneous parallelisation
scheme and SpiNNaker neuromorphic hardware. A published cortical microcircuit
model is used as a benchmark test case, representing approx. 1 square mm of
early sensory cortex, containing 77k neurons and 0.3 billion synapses. This is
the first true real-time simulation of this model, with 10 s of biological
simulation time executed in 10 s wall-clock time. This surpasses best published
efforts on HPC neural simulators (3x slowdown) and GPUs running optimised SNN
libraries (2x slowdown). Furthermore, the presented approach indicates that
real-time processing can be maintained with increasing SNN size, breaking the
communication barrier incurred by traditional computing machinery. Model
results are compared to an established HPC simulator baseline to verify
simulation correctness, comparing well across a range of statistical measures.
Energy to solution, and energy per synaptic event are also reported,
demonstrating that the relatively low-tech SpiNNaker processors achieve a 10x
reduction in energy relative to modern HPC systems, and comparable energy
consumption to modern GPUs. Finally, system robustness is demonstrated through
multiple 12 h simulations of the cortical microcircuit, each simulating 12 h of
biological time, and demonstrating the potential of neuromorphic hardware as a
neuroscience research tool for studying complex spiking neural networks over
extended time periods.