Responses of Ensemble Neurons to Spike-Train Signals with Independent
  Noises: Stochastic Resonance and Spike Variability
Responses have been numerically studied of an ensemble of $N$ (=1, 10, and
100) Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) neurons to coherent spike-train inputs applied with
independent Poisson spike-train (ST) noise and Gaussian white noise. Three
interrelated issues have been investigated: (1) the difference and the
similarity between the effects of the two noises, (2) the size effect of a
neuron ensemble on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and (3) the compatibility
of a large firing variability with fairly good information transmission. (1)
The property of stochastic resonance (SR) for ST noise is shown to be rather
different from that for white noise. When SNR for sub-threshold inputs obtained
in our simulation is analyzed by the expression given by $SNR=10 {\rm log_{10}}
[(A/X^{\alpha}) {\rm exp}(-B/X)]$ where $X$ expresses the noise intensity and
$A$ and $B$ are constants, the index $\alpha$ is $\alpha=3$ for the ST noise
and $\alpha=2$ for the white noise: the former is different from the
conventional value of $\alpha=2$ realized in many non-linear systems. ST noise
works less effectively for SR than white noise. (2) The transmission fidelity
evaluated by SNR is much improved by increasing $N$, the size of ensemble
neurons. In a large-scale neuron ensemble, SNR for supra-threshold inputs is
shown to be not significantly degraded by weak noises responsible to SR for
sub-threshold inputs. (3) Interspike intervals (ISIs) of output spikes for
sub-threshold inputs have a large variability ($c_{v} \siml 0.8$), which is
comparable to the data observed in cortical neurons. Despite variable firings
of individual neurons, output signals summed over an ensemble may carry
information with a fairly good SNR by the aid of SR and a pooling effect.