Can Occipital Alpha Neurofeedback Influence LTRCs and Deterministic ERPs
  without Critical Branching?
Critical branching is a theoretical interaction in-between simple units, such
as neuronal elements of the human brain. Zhigalov, Kaplan, and Palva (2016,
Clin. Neurophysiol., 127(8), 2882-2889) revealed that neurofeedback flash
stimulation locked to the phase of high-amplitude occipital alpha influences
stimulus-locked occipital averages in the alpha-band. This feedback also
influences the power scaling of long-range temporal correlations in alpha-band
amplitude fluctuations. Seemingly, neurofeedback influences critical branching
alongside there being an interaction between ongoing neuronal activity and
evoked responses. However, the causal relations between these neuronal
long-range temporal correlations, sustained attention, and any avalanche
dynamics are called into question. Further, uncorrected concerns include false
discovery rate and an objective mathematical error in the precedent (Palva et
al., 2013, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 110(9), 3585-3590). An alternative set
of illustrative mathematical principles offers a preliminary fit to the effects
in the data. That is, neurofeedback influences the deterministic contribution
to the single-trial event-related potentials, which each flash evokes,
separately from the oscillatory alpha gain that those flashes cause.
Accordingly, distinct principles of this neurofeedback-related exponential
occipital oscillatory alpha gain and deterministic event-related potential
generation produce micro-behaviours with macroscale consequences: neurofeedback
causally influences power-scaling of long-range temporal correlations without
critical branching.