True Contextuality Beats Direct Influences in Human Decision Making
In quantum physics there are well-known situations when measurements of the
same property in different contexts (under different conditions) have the same
probability distribution, but cannot be represented by one and the same random
variable. Such systems of random variables are called contextual. More
generally, true contextuality is observed when different contexts force
measurements of the same property (in psychology, responses to the same
question) to be more dissimilar random variables than warranted by the
difference of their distributions. The difference in distributions is itself a
form of context-dependence, but of another nature: it is attributable to direct
causal influences exerted by contexts upon the random variables. The
Contextuality-by-Default (CbD) theory allows one to separate true contextuality
from direct influences in the overall context-dependence. The CbD analysis of
numerous previous attempts to demonstrate contextuality in human judgments
shows that all context-dependence in them can be accounted for by direct
influences, with no true contextuality present. However, contextual systems in
human behavior can be found. In this paper we present a series of crowdsourcing
experiments that exhibit true contextuality in simple decision making.}{The
design of these experiments is an elaboration of one introduced in the "Snow
Queen" experiment (Decision 5, 193-204, 2018), where contextuality was for the
first time demonstrated unequivocally.