A computational study on synaptic and extrasynaptic effects of astrocyte
  glutamate uptake on orientation tuning in V1
Astrocytes affect neural transmission by a tight control via glutamate
transporters on glutamate concentrations in direct vicinity to the synaptic
cleft and by extracellular glutamate. Their relevance for information
representation has been supported by in-vivo studies in ferret and mouse
primary visual cortex. In ferret blocking glutamate transport pharmacologically
broadened tuning curves and enhanced the response at preferred orientation. In
knock-out mice with reduced expression of glutamate transporters sharpened
tuning was observed. It is however unclear how focal and ambient changes in
glutamate concentration affect stimulus representation. Here we develop a
computational framework, which allows the investigation of synaptic and
extrasynaptic effects of glutamate uptake on orientation tuning in recurrently
connected network models with pinwheel-domain (ferret) or salt-and-pepper
(mouse) organization. This model proposed that glutamate uptake shapes
information representation when it affects the contribution of excitatory and
inhibitory neurons to the network activity. Namely, strengthening the
contribution of excitatory neurons generally broadens tuning and elevates the
response. In contrast, strengthening the contribution of inhibitory neurons can
have a sharpening effect on tuning. In addition local representational topology
also plays a role: In the pinwheel-domain model effects were strongest within
domains - regions where neighboring neurons share preferred orientations.
Around pinwheels but also within salt-and-pepper networks the effects were less
strong. Our model proposes that the pharmacological intervention in ferret
increases the contribution of excitatory cells, while the reduced expression in
mouse increases the contribution of inhibitory cells to network activity.