Functional brain network architecture supporting the learning of social
  networks in humans
Most humans have the good fortune to live their lives embedded in richly
structured social groups. Yet, it remains unclear how humans acquire knowledge
about these social structures to successfully navigate social relationships.
Here we address this knowledge gap with an interdisciplinary neuroimaging study
drawing on recent advances in network science and statistical learning.
Specifically, we collected BOLD MRI data while participants learned the
community structure of both social and non-social networks, in order to examine
whether the learning of these two types of networks was differentially
associated with functional brain network topology. From the behavioral data in
both tasks, we found that learners were sensitive to the community structure of
the networks, as evidenced by a slower reaction time on trials transitioning
between clusters than on trials transitioning within a cluster. From the
neuroimaging data collected during the social network learning task, we
observed that the functional connectivity of the hippocampus and
temporoparietal junction was significantly greater when transitioning between
clusters than when transitioning within a cluster. Furthermore, temporoparietal
regions of the default mode were more strongly connected to hippocampus,
somatomotor, and visual regions during the social task than during the
non-social task. Collectively, our results identify neurophysiological
underpinnings of social versus non-social network learning, extending our
knowledge about the impact of social context on learning processes. More
broadly, this work offers an empirical approach to study the learning of social
network structures, which could be fruitfully extended to other participant
populations, various graph architectures, and a diversity of social contexts in
future studies.