Network Dependency Index Stratified Subnetwork Analysis of Functional
  Connectomes: An application to autism
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition impacting
high-level cognitive processing and social behavior. Recognizing the
distributed nature of brain function, neuroscientists are exploiting the
connectome to aid with the characterization of this complex disease. The human
connectome has demonstrated the brain to be a highly organized system with a
centralized core vital for effective function. As such, many have used this
topological principle to not only assess core regions, but have stratified the
remaining graph into subnetworks depending on their relation to the core.
Subnetworks are then utilized to further understand the supporting role of more
peripheral nodes with respects to the overall function in the network. A
recently proposed framework for subnetwork definition is based on the network
dependency index (NDI), a measure of a node's importance based on its
contribution to overall efficiency in the network, and the derived subnetworks,
or Tiers, have been shown to be largely stable across ages in structural
networks. Here, we extend the NDI framework to test its efficacy against a
number experimental conditions. We first not only demonstrated NDI's
feasibility on resting-state functional MRI data, but also its stability
irrespective of the group connectome on which NDI was determined for various
edge thresholds. Secondly, by comparing network theory measures of transitivity
and efficiency, significant group differences were identified in NDI Tiers of
greatest importance. This demonstrates the efficacy of utilizing NDI stratified
subnetworks, which can help to improve our understanding of diseases and how
they affect overall brain connectivity.