Cortical composition hierarchy driven by spine proportion economical
  maximization or wire volume minimization
The structure and quantitative composition of the cerebral cortex are
interrelated with its computational capacity. Empirical data analyzed here
indicate a certain hierarchy in local cortical composition. Specifically,
neural wire, i.e., axons and dendrites take each about 1/3 of cortical space,
spines and glia/astrocytes occupy each about $(1/3)^{2}$, and capillaries
around $(1/3)^{4}$. Moreover, data analysis across species reveals that these
fractions are roughly brain size independent, which suggests that they could be
in some sense optimal and thus important for brain function. Is there any
principle that sets them in this invariant way? This study first builds a model
of local circuit in which neural wire, spines, astrocytes, and capillaries are
mutually coupled elements and are treated within a single mathematical
framework. Next, various forms of wire minimization rule (wire length, surface
area, volume, or conduction delays) are analyzed, of which, only minimization
of wire volume provides realistic results that are very close to the empirical
cortical fractions. As an alternative, a new principle called "spine economy
maximization" is proposed and investigated, which is associated with
maximization of spine proportion in the cortex per spine size that yields
equally good but more robust results. Additionally, a combination of wire cost
and spine economy notions is considered as a meta-principle, and it is found
that this proposition gives only marginally better results than either pure
wire volume minimization or pure spine economy maximization, but only if spine
economy component dominates. In sum, these results suggest that the new spine
economy principle may be important for brain evolutionary design in a broader
context.