When do Correlations Increase with Firing Rate?
A central question in neuroscience is to understand how noisy firing patterns
are used to transmit information. Because neural spiking is noisy, spiking
patterns are often quantified via pairwise correlations, or the probability
that two cells will spike coincidentally, above and beyond their baseline
firing rate. One observation frequently made in experiments, is that
correlations can increase systematically with firing rate. Theoretical studies
have determined that stimulus-dependent correlations that increase with firing
rate can have beneficial effects on information coding; however, we still have
an incomplete understanding of what circuit mechanisms do, or do not, produce
this correlation-firing rate relationship.
  Here, we study the relationship between pairwise correlations and firing
rates in recurrently coupled excitatory-inhibitory spiking networks with
conductance-based synapses. We found that with stronger excitatory coupling, a
positive relationship emerges between pairwise correlations and firing rates.
To explain these findings, we used linear response theory to predict the full
correlation matrix and to decompose correlations in terms of graph motifs. We
then used this decomposition to explain why covariation of correlations with
firing rate -- a relationship previously explained in feedforward networks
driven by correlated input -- emerges in some recurrent networks but not in
others. Furthermore, when correlations covary with firing rate, this
relationship is reflected in low-rank structure in the correlation matrix.