The brain as a trigger system
There are significant analogies between the issues related to real-time event
selection in HEP, and the issues faced by the human visual system. In fact, the
visual system needs to extract rapidly the most important elements of the
external world from a large flux of information, for survival purposes. A rapid
and reliable detection of visual stimuli is essential for triggering autonomic
responses to emotive stimuli, for initiating adaptive behaviors and for
orienting towards potentially interesting/ dangerous stimuli. The speed of
visual processing can be as fast as 20 ms, about only 20 times the duration of
the elementary information exchanges by the action potential. The limitations
to the brain capacity to process visual information, imposed by intrinsic
energetic costs of neuronal activity, and ecological limits to the size of the
skull, require a strong data reduction at an early stage, by creating a compact
summary of relevant information, the so called "primal sketch", to be handled
by further levels of processing. This is quite similar to the problem of
experimental HEP of providing fast data reduction at a reasonable monetary
cost, and with a practical device size. As a result of a joint effort of HEP
physicists and practicing vision scientists, we recently proposed that not only
the problems are similar, but the solutions adopted in the two cases also have
strong similarities, and their parallel study can actually shed light on each
other. Modeling the visual system as a trigger processor leads to a deeper
understanding, and even very specific predictions of its functionality.
Conversely, the insights gained from this new approach to vision, can lead to
new ideas for enhancing the capabilities of artificial vision systems, and HEP
trigger systems as well.