Scalability of asynchronous networks is limited by one-to-one mapping
  between effective connectivity and correlations
Network models are routinely downscaled compared to nature in terms of
numbers of nodes or edges because of a lack of computational resources, often
without explicit mention of the limitations this entails. While reliable
methods have long existed to adjust parameters such that the first-order
statistics of network dynamics are conserved, here we show that limitations
already arise if also second-order statistics are to be maintained. The
temporal structure of pairwise averaged correlations in the activity of
recurrent networks is determined by the effective population-level
connectivity. We first show that in general the converse is also true and
explicitly mention degenerate cases when this one-to-one relationship does not
hold. The one-to-one correspondence between effective connectivity and the
temporal structure of pairwise averaged correlations implies that network
scalings should preserve the effective connectivity if pairwise averaged
correlations are to be held constant. Changes in effective connectivity can
even push a network from a linearly stable to an unstable, oscillatory regime
and vice versa. On this basis, we derive conditions for the preservation of
both mean population-averaged activities and pairwise averaged correlations
under a change in numbers of neurons or synapses in the asynchronous regime
typical of cortical networks. We find that mean activities and correlation
structure can be maintained by an appropriate scaling of the synaptic weights,
but only over a range of numbers of synapses that is limited by the variance of
external inputs to the network. Our results therefore show that the
reducibility of asynchronous networks is fundamentally limited.