Enhanced repertoire of brain dynamical states during the psychedelic
  experience
The study of rapid changes in brain dynamics and functional connectivity (FC)
is of increasing interest in neuroimaging. Brain states departing from normal
waking consciousness are expected to be accompanied by alterations in the
aforementioned dynamics. In particular, the psychedelic experience produced by
psilocybin (a substance found in `magic mushrooms`) is characterized by
unconstrained cognition and profound alterations in the perception of time,
space and selfhood. Considering the spontaneous and subjective manifestation of
these effects, we hypothesize that neural correlates of the psychedelic
experience can be found in the dynamics and variability of spontaneous brain
activity fluctuations and connectivity, measurable with functional Magnetic
Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Fifteen healthy subjects were scanned before, during
and after intravenous infusion of psilocybin and an inert placebo. Blood-Oxygen
Level Dependent (BOLD) temporal variability was assessed computing the variance
and total spectral power, resulting in increased signal variability bilaterally
in the hippocampi and anterior cingulate cortex. Changes in BOLD signal
spectral behavior (including spectral scaling exponents) affected exclusively
higher brain systems such as the default mode, executive control and dorsal
attention networks. A novel framework enabled us to track different
connectivity states explored by the brain during rest. This approach revealed a
wider repertoire of connectivity states post-psilocybin than during control
conditions. Together, the present results provide a comprehensive account of
the effects of psilocybin on dynamical behaviour in the human brain at a
macroscopic level and may have implications for our understanding of the
unconstrained, hyper-associative quality of consciousness in the psychedelic
state.