Multiscale and multimodal network dynamics underpinning working memory
Working memory (WM) allows information to be stored and manipulated over
short time scales. Performance on WM tasks is thought to be supported by the
frontoparietal system (FPS), the default mode system (DMS), and interactions
between them. Yet little is known about how these systems and their
interactions relate to individual differences in WM performance. We address
this gap in knowledge using functional MRI data acquired during the performance
of a 2-back WM task, as well as diffusion tensor imaging data collected in the
same individuals. We show that the strength of functional interactions between
the FPS and DMS during task engagement is inversely correlated with WM
performance, and that this strength is modulated by the activation of FPS
regions but not DMS regions. Next, we use a clustering algorithm to identify
two distinct subnetworks of the FPS, and find that these subnetworks display
distinguishable patterns of gene expression. Activity in one subnetwork is
positively associated with the strength of FPS-DMS functional interactions,
while activity in the second subnetwork is negatively associated. Further, the
pattern of structural linkages of these subnetworks explains their differential
capacity to influence the strength of FPS-DMS functional interactions. To
determine whether these observations could provide a mechanistic account of
large-scale neural underpinnings of WM, we build a computational model of the
system composed of coupled oscillators. Modulating the amplitude of the
subnetworks in the model causes the expected change in the strength of FPS-DMS
functional interactions, thereby offering support for a mechanism in which
subnetwork activity tunes functional interactions. Broadly, our study presents
a holistic account of how regional activity, functional interactions, and
structural linkages together support individual differences in WM in humans.