Context-dependent selection of visuomotor maps
Behavior results from the integration of ongoing sensory signals and
contextual information in various forms, such as past experience, expectations,
current goals, etc. Thus, the response to a specific stimulus, say the ringing
of a doorbell, varies depending on whether you are at home or in someone else's
house. What is the neural basis of this flexibility? What mechanism is capable
of selecting, in a context-dependent way, an adequate response to a given
stimulus? One possibility is based on a nonlinear neural representation in
which context information regulates the gain of stimulus-evoked responses. Here
I explore the properties of this mechanism. By means of three hypothetical
visuomotor tasks, I study a class of neural network models in which any one of
several possible stimulus-response maps or rules can be selected according to
context. The underlying mechanism based on gain modulation has three key
features: (1) modulating the sensory responses is equivalent to switching on or
off different subpopulations of neurons, (2) context does not need to be
represented continuously, although this is advantageous for generalization, and
(3) context-dependent selection is independent of the discriminability of the
stimuli. In all cases, the contextual cues can quickly turn on or off a
sensory-motor map, effectively changing the functional connectivity between
inputs and outputs in the networks. The model predicts that sensory responses
that are nonlinearly modulated by arbitrary context signals should be found in
behavioral situations that involve choosing or switching between multiple
sensory-motor maps.