An Analysis of the 'Blind Variation and Selective Retention' Theory of
  Creativity
Picasso's Guernica sketches continue to provide a fruitful testing ground for
examining and assessing the Blind Variation Selective Retention (BVSR) theory
of creativity. Nonmonotonicity--e.g. as indicated by a lack of similarity of
successive sketches--is not evidence of a selectionist process; Darwin's theory
explains adaptive change, not nonmonotonicity. Although the notion of blindness
originally implied randomness, it now encompasses phenomena that bias idea
generation, e.g. the influence of remote associations on sketch ideas. However,
for a selectionist framework is to be applicable, such biases must be
negligible, otherwise evolutionary change is attributed to those biases, not to
selection. The notion of 'variants' should not be applied to creativity;
without a mechanism of inheritance, there is no basis upon which to delineate,
for example, which sketch ideas are or are not variants of a given sketch idea.
The notion of selective retention is also problematic. Selection provides an
explanation when acquired change is not transmitted; it cannot apply to
Picasso's painting (or other creative acts) because his ideas acquired
modifications as he thought them through that were incorporated into paintings
and viewed by others. The generation of one sketch affects the criteria by
which the next is judged, so sequentially generated sketches cannot be treated
as members of a generation, and selected amongst. Although BVSR is
inappropriate as a theoretical framework for creativity, exploring to what
extent selectionism explains the generation of not just biological form but
masterpieces such as Picasso's Guernica is useful for gaining insight into
creativity.