Active subthreshold dendritic conductances shape the local field
  potential
The main contribution to the local field potential (LFP) is thought to stem
from synaptic input to neurons and the ensuing subthreshold dendritic
processing. The role of active dendritic conductances in shaping the LFP has
received little attention, even though such ion channels are known to affect
the subthreshold neuron dynamics. Here we used a modeling approach to
investigate the effects of subthreshold dendritic conductances on the LFP.
Using a biophysically detailed, experimentally constrained model of a cortical
pyramidal neuron, we identified conditions under which subthreshold active
conductances are a major factor in shaping the LFP. We found that particularly
the hyperpolarization-activated inward current, I$_{\rm h}$, can have a sizable
effect and cause a resonance in the LFP power spectral density. To get a
general, qualitative understanding of how any subthreshold active dendritic
conductance and its cellular distribution can affect the LFP, we next performed
a systematic study with a simplified model. We found that the effect on the LFP
is most pronounced when (1) the synaptic drive to the cell is asymmetrically
distributed (i.e., either basal or apical), (2) the active conductances are
distributed non-uniformly with the highest channel densities near the synaptic
input, and (3) when the LFP is measured at the opposite pole of the cell
relative to the synaptic input. In summary, we show that subthreshold active
conductances can be strongly reflected in LFP signals, opening up the
possibility that the LFP can be used to characterize the properties and
cellular distributions of active conductances.