Independent circuits in basal ganglia and cortex for the processing of
  reward and precision feedback
In order to understand human decision making it is necessary to understand
how the brain uses feedback to guide goal-directed behavior. The ventral
striatum (VS) appears to be a key structure in this function, responding
strongly to explicit reward feedback. However, recent results have also shown
striatal activity following correct task performance even in the absence of
feedback. This raises the possibility that, in addition to processing external
feedback, the dopamine-centered reward circuit might regulate endogenous
reinforcement signals, like those triggered by satisfaction in accurate task
performance. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test
this idea. Participants completed a simple task that garnered both reward
feedback and feedback about the precision of performance. Importantly, the
design was such that we could manipulate information about the precision of
performance within different levels of reward magnitude. Using parametric
modulation and functional connectivity analysis we identified brain regions
sensitive to each of these signals. Our results show a double dissociation:
frontal and posterior cingulate regions responded to explicit reward but were
insensitive to task precision, whereas the dorsal striatum - and putamen in
particular - was insensitive to reward but responded strongly to precision
feedback in reward-present trials. Both types of feedback activated the VS, and
sensitivity in this structure to precision feedback was predicted by
personality traits related to approach behavior and reward responsiveness. Our
findings shed new light on the role of specific brain regions in integrating
different sources of feedback to guide goal-directed behavior.