Cortical Circuits from Scratch: A Metaplastic Architecture for the
  Emergence of Lognormal Firing Rates and Realistic Topology
Our current understanding of neuroplasticity paints a picture of a complex
interconnected system of dependent processes which shape cortical structure so
as to produce an efficient information processing system. Indeed, the
cooperation of these processes is associated with robust, stable, adaptable
networks with characteristic features of activity and synaptic topology.
However, combining the actions of these mechanisms in models has proven
exceptionally difficult and to date no model has been able to do so without
significant hand-tuning. Until such a model exists that can successfully
combine these mechanisms to form a stable circuit with realistic features, our
ability to study neuroplasticity in the context of (more realistic) dynamic
networks and potentially reap whatever rewards these features and mechanisms
imbue biological networks with is hindered. We introduce a model which combines
five known plasticity mechanisms that act on the network as well as a unique
metaplastic mechanism which acts on other plasticity mechanisms, to produce a
neural circuit model which is both stable and capable of broadly reproducing
many characteristic features of cortical networks. The MANA (metaplastic
artificial neural architecture) represents the first model of its kind in that
it is able to self-organize realistic, nonrandom features of cortical networks,
from a null initial state (no synaptic connectivity or neuronal
differentiation). In the same vein as models like the SORN (self-organizing
recurrent network) MANA represents further progress toward the reverse
engineering of the brain at the network level.