An exact firing rate model reveals the differential effects of chemical
  versus electrical synapses in spiking networks
Chemical and electrical synapses shape the dynamics of neuronal networks.
Numerous theoretical studies have investigated how each of these types of
synapses contributes to the generation of neuronal oscillations, but their
combined effect is less understood. This limitation is further magnified by the
impossibility of traditional neuronal mean-field models ---also known as firing
rate models, or firing rate equations--- to account for electrical synapses.
Here we introduce a novel firing rate model that exactly describes the mean
field dynamics of heterogeneous populations of quadratic integrate-and-fire
(QIF) neurons with both chemical and electrical synapses. The mathematical
analysis of the firing rate model reveals a well-established bifurcation
scenario for networks with chemical synapses, characterized by a codimension-2
Cusp point and persistent states for strong recurrent excitatory coupling. The
inclusion of electrical coupling generally implies neuronal synchrony by virtue
of a supercritical Hopf bifurcation. This transforms the Cusp scenario into a
bifurcation scenario characterized by three codimension-2 points (Cusp,
Takens-Bogdanov, and Saddle-Node Separatrix Loop), which greatly reduces the
possibility for persistent states. This is generic for heterogeneous QIF
networks with both chemical and electrical coupling. Our results agree with
several numerical studies on the dynamics of large networks of heterogeneous
spiking neurons with electrical and chemical coupling.