Critique of the Fox-Lu model for Hodgkin-Huxley fluctuations in neuron
  ion channels
Using a well known result that every FP equation has an antecedent Langevin
equation LE Fox and Lu proposed such a description for ion channels in 1994.
Their contraction followed the works of van Kampen and of T. Kurtz. The
contraction produces a diffusion term with a state dependent diffusion matrix,
D, that arises from the coupling matrix, S, in the LE. This S connected the
noise terms to the channel subunit variables in the LE. Fox and Lu and many
others later on observed that SS = D. Since D was determined by the contraction
of the MC equations into the FP equation, this left the problem of determining
the square root matrix, S, for every time step of the simulation. Since this is
time consuming, Fox and Lu introduced simplified models not requiring the
square root of a matrix. Subsequently, numerous studies were published that
showed the several shortcomings of these simplified models. In 2011, Goldwyn et
al. [6] rediscovered the overlooked original matrix dependent approach in the
Fox-Lu 1994 paper. They showed that it produced results in very good agreement
with the MC results. In 1991, Fox and Keizer [7] wrote a paper on an unrelated
topic that utilized the work of van Kampen and of Kurtz. In that work the
connection between D and S is SST = D. ST is the adjoint (transpose) of S. D
remains a positive definite symmetric matrix but S need not be. Fox has
reproduced the 2012 results of Orio and Soudry for potassium channels and has
also found in closed form the solution for the more complicated sodium
channels. The square root problem generally must be done numerically, but the
Cholesky is always doable in closed form. Thereby the S matrix for sodium is
given explicitly for the first time in this paper