Generative Models for Network Neuroscience: Prospects and Promise
Network neuroscience is the emerging discipline concerned with investigating
the complex patterns of interconnections found in neural systems, and to
identify principles with which to understand them. Within this discipline, one
particularly powerful approach is network generative modeling, in which wiring
rules are algorithmically implemented to produce synthetic network
architectures with the same properties as observed in empirical network data.
Successful models can highlight the principles by which a network is organized
and potentially uncover the mechanisms by which it grows and develops. Here we
review the prospects and promise of generative models for network neuroscience.
We begin with a primer on network generative models, with a discussion of
compressibility and predictability, utility in intuiting mechanisms, and a
short history on their use in network science broadly. We then discuss
generative models in practice and application, paying particular attention to
the critical need for cross-validation. Next, we review generative models of
biological neural networks, both at the cellular and large-scale level, and
across a variety of species including \emph{C. elegans}, \emph{Drosophila},
mouse, rat, cat, macaque, and human. We offer a careful treatment of a few
relevant distinctions, including differences between generative models and null
models, sufficiency and redundancy, inferring and claiming mechanism, and
functional and structural connectivity. We close with a discussion of future
directions, outlining exciting frontiers both in empirical data collection
efforts as well as in method and theory development that, together, further the
utility of the generative network modeling approach for network neuroscience.