Conservation rules, their breakdown, and optimality in Caenorhabditis
  sinusoidal locomotion
Undulatory locomotion is common to nematodes as well as to limbless
vertebrates, but its control is not understood in spite of the identification
of hundred of genes involved in Caenorhabditis elegans locomotion. To reveal
the mechanisms of nematode undulatory locomotion, we quantitatively analyzed
the movement of C. elegans with genetic perturbations to neurons, muscles, and
skeleton (cuticle). We also compared locomotion of different Caenorhabditis
species. We constructed a theoretical model that combines mechanics and
biophysics, and that is constrained by the observations of propulsion and
muscular velocities, as well as wavelength and amplitude of undulations. We
find that normalized wavelength is a conserved quantity among wild-type C.
elegans individuals, across mutants, and across different species. The velocity
of forward propulsion scales linearly with the velocity of the muscular wave
and the corresponding slope is also a conserved quantity and almost optimal;
the exceptions are in some mutants affecting cuticle structure. In theoretical
terms, the optimality of the slope is equivalent to the exact balance between
muscular and visco-elastic body reaction bending moments. We find that the
amplitude and frequency of undulations are inversely correlated and provide a
theoretical explanation for this fact. These experimental results are valid
both for young adults and for all larval stages of wild type C. elegans. In
particular, during development, the amplitude scales linearly with the
wavelength, consistent with our theory. We also investigated the influence of
substrate firmness on motion parameters, and found that it does not affect the
above invariants. In general, our biomechanical model can explain the observed
robustness of the mechanisms controlling nematode undulatory locomotion.