Choosing Wavelet Methods, Filters, and Lengths for Functional Brain
  Network Construction
Wavelet methods are widely used to decompose fMRI, EEG, or MEG signals into
time series representing neurophysiological activity in fixed frequency bands.
Using these time series, one can estimate frequency-band specific functional
connectivity between sensors or regions of interest, and thereby construct
functional brain networks that can be examined from a graph theoretic
perspective. Despite their common use, however, practical guidelines for the
choice of wavelet method, filter, and length have remained largely
undelineated. Here, we explicitly explore the effects of wavelet method (MODWT
vs. DWT), wavelet filter (Daubechies Extremal Phase, Daubechies Least
Asymmetric, and Coiflet families), and wavelet length (2 to 24) - each
essential parameters in wavelet-based methods - on the estimated values of
network diagnostics and in their sensitivity to alterations in psychiatric
disease. We observe that the MODWT method produces less variable estimates than
the DWT method. We also observe that the length of the wavelet filter chosen
has a greater impact on the estimated values of network diagnostics than the
type of wavelet chosen. Furthermore, wavelet length impacts the sensitivity of
the method to detect differences between health and disease and tunes
classification accuracy. Collectively, our results suggest that the choice of
wavelet method and length significantly alters the reliability and sensitivity
of these methods in estimating values of network diagnostics drawn from graph
theory. They furthermore demonstrate the importance of reporting the choices
utilized in neuroimaging studies and support the utility of exploring wavelet
parameters to maximize classification accuracy in the development of biomarkers
of psychiatric disease and neurological disorders.