Spectral Synchronicity in Brain Signals
Brain activity following stimulus presentation and during resting state are
often the result of highly coordinated responses of large numbers of neurons
both locally and globally. Coordinated activity of neurons can give rise to
oscillations which are captured by electroencephalograms (EEG). In this paper,
we examine EEGs as this is the primary data being used by our collaborators who
are studying coordination of neuronal response during the execution of tasks
such as learning, and memory formation, retention and retrieval. In this paper,
we develop the spectral merger clustering (SMC) method that identifies
synchronized brain regions during resting state in a sense that these regions
share similar oscillations or waveforms. The SMC method, produces clusters of
EEGs which serve as a proxy for segmenting the brain cortical surface since the
EEGs capture neuronal activity over a locally distributed region on the
cortical surface. The extent of desynchronicity between a pair of EEGs is
measured using the total variation distance (TVD) which gives the largest
possible difference between the spectral densities of the pair of EEGs. We
considered the spectral merger algorithm for clustering EEGs, which updates the
spectral estimate of the cluster from a weighted average of the spectral
estimate obtained from each EEG in the cluster. Numerical experiments suggest
that the SMC method performs very well in producing the correct clusters. When
applied to resting state EEG data, the method showed how some regions, though
not contiguously connected on the cortical surface, are spectrally synchronized
during resting state. Moreover, the method demonstrates that brain
organization, as expressed in cluster formation, evolves over resting state.