Stationarity breaking in coupled physical systems revealed by recurrence
  analysis
In this letter we explore how recurrence quantifier, the determinism
($\Delta$), can reveal stationarity breaking and coupling between physical
systems. We demonstrate that it is possible to detect small variations in a
dynamical system based only on temporal signal displayed by another system
coupled to it. To introduce basic ideas, we consider a well known dynamical
system composed of two master-slave coupled Lorenz oscillators. We start
evidencing that due to the sensitivity of $\Delta$ computed from temporal time
series of slave oscillator, its is possible to detect the stationary breaking
imposed in the master oscillator. As a second example, the method is carried
out in a real physiological data acquired from accelerometer sensors
($\mathrm{A_{cc}}$) and used to detect micro arousal phenomenology (described
by a sharp burst in $\mathrm{A_{cc}}$ signal) during sleep periods in mice.
Moreover, we show for the first time that making use of recurrence quantifier
it is possible to infer a coupling between electric signals from hippocampus
and "locomotor brain areas" of mice, based only on non invasive data from
$\mathrm{A_{cc}}$. Our results suggest new possibilities of analysis of coupled
systems making use of accessible time series. Our second example supports an
interpretation of an internal coupling detectable as a stationarity breaking in
$\mathrm{A_{cc}}$ that occurs some seconds before micro arousal processes
during sleep periods in rodents, contributing to the idea that micro arousals
are elements of sleep taking part in the regulation of sleep process. Such a
characterization of micro arousals can improve our knowledge about sleep
fostering tools of sleep diagnose and pharmacology research for mammals in
general.