An MRI-Derived Definition of MCI-to-AD Conversion for Long-Term,
  Automati c Prognosis of MCI Patients
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), continue to be
widely studied. While there is no consensus on whether MCIs actually "convert"
to AD, the more important question is not whether MCIs convert, but what is the
best such definition. We focus on automatic prognostication, nominally using
only a baseline image brain scan, of whether an MCI individual will convert to
AD within a multi-year period following the initial clinical visit. This is in
fact not a traditional supervised learning problem since, in ADNI, there are no
definitive labeled examples of MCI conversion. Prior works have defined MCI
subclasses based on whether or not clinical/cognitive scores such as CDR
significantly change from baseline. There are concerns with these definitions,
however, since e.g. most MCIs (and ADs) do not change from a baseline CDR=0.5,
even while physiological changes may be occurring. These works ignore rich
phenotypical information in an MCI patient's brain scan and labeled AD and
Control examples, in defining conversion. We propose an innovative conversion
definition, wherein an MCI patient is declared to be a converter if any of the
patient's brain scans (at follow-up visits) are classified "AD" by an
(accurately-designed) Control-AD classifier. This novel definition bootstraps
the design of a second classifier, specifically trained to predict whether or
not MCIs will convert. This second classifier thus predicts whether an
AD-Control classifier will predict that a patient has AD. Our results
demonstrate this new definition leads not only to much higher prognostic
accuracy than by-CDR conversion, but also to subpopulations much more
consistent with known AD brain region biomarkers. We also identify key
prognostic region biomarkers, essential for accurately discriminating the
converter and nonconverter groups.