Transient localized wave patterns and their application to migraine
Transient dynamics is pervasive in the human brain and poses challenging
problems both in mathematical tractability and clinical observability. We
investigate statistical properties of transient cortical wave patterns with
characteristic forms (shape, size, duration) in a canonical reaction-diffusion
model with mean field inhibition. The patterns are formed by a ghost near a
saddle-node bifurcation in which a stable traveling wave (node) collides with
its critical nucleation mass (saddle). Similar patterns have been observed with
fMRI in migraine. Our results support the controversial idea that waves of
cortical spreading depression (SD) have a causal relationship with the headache
phase in migraine and therefore occur not only in migraine with aura (MA) but
also in migraine without aura (MO), i.e., in the two major migraine subforms.
We suggest a congruence between the prevalence of MO and MA with the
statistical properties of the traveling waves' forms, according to which (i)
activation of nociceptive mechanisms relevant for headache is dependent upon a
sufficiently large instantaneous affected cortical area anti-correlated to both
SD duration and total affected cortical area such that headache would be less
severe in MA than in MO (ii) the incidence of MA is reflected in the distance
to the saddle-node bifurcation, and (iii) the contested notion of MO attacks
with silent aura is resolved. We briefly discuss model-based control and means
by which neuromodulation techniques may affect pathways of pain formation.