The role of node dynamics in shaping emergent functional connectivity
  patterns in the brain
The contribution of structural connectivity to dynamic and often highly
variable brain states remains poorly understood. We present a mathematical and
computational study suited to assess the structure--function issue. We treat a
system of Jansen--Rit neural-mass nodes with heterogeneous structural
connections estimated from diffusion MRI data provided by the Human Connectome
Project. Direct simulations are used to determine the similarity of functional
(inferred from correlated activity between brain areas) and structural
connectivity matrices as a function of the parameters controlling dynamics of a
single node, highlighting a non-trivial structure--function relationship in
regimes that support limit cycle oscillations. To determine their relationship,
we firstly determine the network instabilities that give rise to oscillations,
and the set of false bifurcations that occur beyond this onset. In particular,
we highlight that functional connectivity (FC) is inherited most robustly from
structure when node dynamics are poised near a Hopf bifurcation, whilst near
false bifurcations, structure only weakly influences function. Secondly, we
develop a weakly coupled oscillator description to analyse oscillatory
phase-locked states and, furthermore, show how the modular structure of the FC
matrix can be predicted using a linear stability analysis. This study thereby
emphasises that local dynamics can have a substantial role in shaping
large-scale functional brain states.