Integrated Information and Autonomy in the Thermodynamic Limit
The concept of autonomy is fundamental for understanding biological
organization and the evolutionary transitions of living systems. Understanding
how a system constitutes itself as an individual, cohesive, self-organized
entity is a fundamental challenge for the understanding of life. However, it is
generally a difficult task to determine whether the system or its environment
has generated the correlations that allow an observer to trace the boundary of
a living system as a coherent unit. Inspired by the framework of integrated
information theory, we propose a measure of the level of integration of a
system as the response of a system to partitions that introduce perturbations
in the interaction between subsystems, without assuming the existence of a
stationary distribution. With the goal of characterizing transitions in
integrated information in the thermodynamic limit, we apply this measure to
kinetic Ising models of infinite size using mean field techniques. Our findings
suggest that, in order to preserve the integration of causal influences of a
system as it grows in size, a living entity must be poised near critical points
maximizing its sensitivity to perturbations in the interaction between
subsystems. Moreover, we observe how such a measure is able to delimit an agent
and its environment, being able to characterize simple instances of
agent-environment asymmetries in which the agent has the ability to modulate
its coupling with the environment.