Ripple oscillations in the left temporal neocortex are associated with
  impaired verbal episodic memory encoding
Background: We sought to determine if ripple oscillations (80-120Hz),
detected in intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings of epilepsy patients, correlate
with an enhancement or disruption of verbal episodic memory encoding. Methods:
We defined ripple and spike events in depth iEEG recordings during list
learning in 107 patients with focal epilepsy. We used logistic regression
models (LRMs) to investigate the relationship between the occurrence of ripple
and spike events during word presentation and the odds of successful word
recall following a distractor epoch, and included the seizure onset zone (SOZ)
as a covariate in the LRMs. Results: We detected events during 58,312 word
presentation trials from 7,630 unique electrode sites. The probability of
ripple on spike (RonS) events was increased in the seizure onset zone (SOZ,
p<0.04). In the left temporal neocortex RonS events during word presentation
corresponded with a decrease in the odds ratio (OR) of successful recall,
however this effect only met significance in the SOZ (OR of word recall 0.71,
95% CI: 0.59-0.85, n=158 events, adaptive Hochberg p<0.01). Ripple on
oscillation events (RonO) that occurred in the left temporal neocortex non-SOZ
also correlated with decreased odds of successful recall (OR 0.52, 95% CI:
0.34-0.80, n=140, adaptive Hochberg , p<0.01). Spikes and RonS that occurred
during word presentation in the left middle temporal gyrus during word
presentation correlated with the most significant decrease in the odds of
successful recall, irrespective of the location of the SOZ (adaptive Hochberg,
p<0.01). Conclusion: Ripples and spikes generated in left temporal neocortex
are associated with impaired verbal episodic memory encoding.