Neural origins of self-generated thought: Insights from intracranial
  electrical stimulation and recordings in humans
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has begun to narrow down the
neural correlates of self-generated forms of thought, with current evidence
pointing toward central roles for the default, frontoparietal, and visual
networks. Recent work has linked the arising of thoughts more specifically to
default network activity, but the limited temporal resolution of fMRI has
precluded more detailed conclusions about where in the brain self-created
mental content is generated and how this is achieved. Here I argue that the
unparalleled spatiotemporal resolution of intracranial electrophysiology (iEEG)
in human epilepsy patients can begin to provide answers to questions about the
specific neural origins of self-generated thought. I review the extensive body
of literature from iEEG studies over the past few decades and show that many
studies involving passive recording or direct electrical stimulation throughout
the brain all point to the medial temporal lobe as a key site of
thought-generation. At the same time, null effects from other brain regions
suggest that various other default network hubs, such as the posterior
cingulate cortex and inferior parietal lobule, might have only a marginal role
(if any) in the self-generation or initiation of mental content like dreams,
visual imagery, memories, and prospective simulations. Ultimately, combining a
variety of neuroscientific methods that compensate for each other's weaknesses
and complement each other's strengths may prove to be the most effective way to
understand the brain's remarkable ability to decouple from the immediate
environment and generate its own experiences.