The Importance of Being Negative: A serious treatment of non-trivial
  edges in brain functional connectome
Understanding the modularity of fMRI-derived brain networks or connectomes
can inform the study of brain function organization. However, fMRI connectomes
additionally involve negative edges, which are not rigorously accounted for by
existing approaches to modularity that either ignores or arbitrarily weight
these connections. Furthermore, most Q maximization-based modularity algorithms
yield variable results with suboptimal reproducibility. Here we present an
alternative, reproducible approach that exploits how frequent the BOLD-signal
correlation between two nodes is negative. We validated this novel
probability-based modularity approach on two independent publicly-available
resting-state connectome dataset (the Human Connectome Project and the 1000
Functional Connectomes) and demonstrated that negative correlations alone are
sufficient in understanding resting-state modularity. In fact, this approach a)
permits a dual formulation, leading to equivalent solutions regardless of
whether one considers positive or negative edges; b) is theoretically linked to
the Ising model defined on the connectome, thus yielding modularity result that
maximizes data likelihood. We additionally were able to detect sex differences
in modularity that the most widely utilized methods did not. Results confirmed
the superiority of our approach in that: a) correlations with the highest
probability of being negative are consistently placed between modules, b) due
to the equivalent dual forms, no arbitrary weighting factor is required to
balance the influence between negative and positive correlations, unlike
existing Q maximization-based modularity approaches. As datasets like HCP
become widely available for analysis by the neuroscience community at large,
appropriate computational tools to understand the neurobiological information
of negative edges in fMRI connectomes are increasingly important.