Mean-field modeling of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical system. I.
  Firing rates in healthy and parkinsonian states
Parkinsonism leads to various electrophysiological changes in the basal
ganglia-thalamocortical system (BGTCS), often including elevated discharge
rates of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the output nuclei, and reduced
activity of the globus pallidus external segment (GPe). These rate changes have
been explained qualitatively in terms of the direct/indirect pathway model,
involving projections of distinct striatal populations to the output nuclei and
GPe. Although these populations partly overlap, evidence suggests dopamine
depletion differentially affects cortico-striato-pallidal connection strengths
to the two pallidal segments. Dopamine loss may also decrease the striatal
signal-to-noise ratio, reducing both corticostriatal coupling and striatal
firing thresholds. Here we present a mean-field model of the BGTCS with
structure and parameter estimates closely based on physiology and anatomy.
Changes in firing rates due to modeled dopamine loss are compared with
experiment. Our results suggest that a stronger indirect pathway, possibly
combined with a weakened direct pathway, is compatible with empirical evidence.
However, altered corticostriatal connection strengths are probably not solely
responsible for substantially increased STN activity often found. A lower STN
firing threshold, weaker intracortical inhibition, and stronger striato-GPe
inhibition help explain the relatively large increase in STN rate. Changes in
cortex, GPe, and STN help normalize the cortical rate, also in accord with
experiments. The model integrates the basal ganglia into a unified framework
along with an existing thalamocortical model that accounts for a wide range of
electrophysiological phenomena. A companion paper discusses the dynamics and
oscillations of this combined system.