Effective Connectivity from Single Trial fMRI Data by Sampling
  Biologically Plausible Models
The estimation of causal network architectures in the brain is fundamental
for understanding cognitive information processes. However, access to the
dynamic processes underlying cognition is limited to indirect measurements of
the hidden neuronal activity, for instance through fMRI data. Thus, estimating
the network structure of the underlying process is challenging. In this
article, we embed an adaptive importance sampler called Adaptive Path Integral
Smoother (APIS) into the Expectation-Maximization algorithm to obtain point
estimates of causal connectivity. We demonstrate on synthetic data that this
procedure finds not only the correct network structure but also the direction
of effective connections from random initializations of the connectivity
matrix. In addition--motivated by contradictory claims in the literature--we
examine the effect of the neuronal timescale on the sensitivity of the BOLD
signal to changes in the connectivity and on the maximum likelihood solutions
of the connectivity. We conclude with two warnings: First, the connectivity
estimates under the assumption of slow dynamics can be extremely biased if the
data was generated by fast neuronal processes. Second, the faster the time
scale, the less sensitive the BOLD signal is to changes in the incoming
connections to a node. Hence, connectivity estimation using realistic neural
dynamics timescale requires extremely high-quality data and seems infeasible in
many practical data sets.