Quantitative assessment of computational models for retinotopic map
  formation
Molecular and activity-based cues acting together are thought to guide
retinal axons to their terminal sites in vertebrate optic tectum or superior
colliculus to form an ordered map of connections. The details of mechanisms
involved, and the degree to which they might interact, are still not well
understood. We have developed a framework within which existing computational
models can be assessed in an unbiased and quantitative manner against a set of
experimental data curated from the mouse retinocollicular system. Our framework
facilitates comparison between models, testing new models against known
phenotypes and simulating new phenotypes in existing models. We have used this
framework to assess four representative models that combine Eph/ephrin
gradients and/or activity-based mechanisms and competition. Two of the models
were updated from their original form to fit into our framework. The models
were tested against five different phenotypes: wild type, Isl2-EphA3 ki/ki,
Isl2-EphA3 ki/+, ephrin-A2,A3,A5 triple knock-out and Math-/- (Atoh7). Only one
model could account for the collapse point in Isl2-EphA3 ki/+, and two models
successfully reproduced the extent of the Math5-/- anteromedial projection. The
models needed a weak anteroposterior gradient in the superior colliculus in
order to reproduce the residual order in the ephrin-A2,A3,A5 triple knock-out
phenotype, suggesting either an incomplete knock-out or the presence of another
guidance molecule. This points to the need for future modelling and
experimental work to improve our understanding of the developmental mechanisms
involved.