The what and where of adding channel noise to the Hodgkin-Huxley
  equations
One of the most celebrated successes in computational biology is the
Hodgkin-Huxley framework for modeling electrically active cells. This
framework, expressed through a set of differential equations, synthesizes the
impact of ionic currents on a cell's voltage -- and the highly nonlinear impact
of that voltage back on the currents themselves -- into the rapid push and pull
of the action potential. Latter studies confirmed that these cellular dynamics
are orchestrated by individual ion channels, whose conformational changes
regulate the conductance of each ionic current. Thus, kinetic equations
familiar from physical chemistry are the natural setting for describing
conductances; for small-to-moderate numbers of channels, these will predict
fluctuations in conductances and stochasticity in the resulting action
potentials. At first glance, the kinetic equations provide a far more complex
(and higher-dimensional) description than the original Hodgkin-Huxley
equations. This has prompted more than a decade of efforts to capture channel
fluctuations with noise terms added to the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. Many of
these approaches, while intuitively appealing, produce quantitative errors when
compared to kinetic equations; others, as only very recently demonstrated, are
both accurate and relatively simple. We review what works, what doesn't, and
why, seeking to build a bridge to well-established results for the
deterministic Hodgkin-Huxley equations. As such, we hope that this review will
speed emerging studies of how channel noise modulates electrophysiological
dynamics and function. We supply user-friendly Matlab simulation code of these
stochastic versions of the Hodgkin-Huxley equations on the ModelDB website
(accession number 138950) and
http://www.amath.washington.edu/~etsb/tutorials.html.