Nonlinear analysis of EEG complexity in episode and remission phase of
  recurrent depression
Biomarkers of Major Depressive Disorder(MDD), its phases and forms have long
been sought. Research indicates that the complexity measures of the cortical
electrical activity (EEG) might be candidates for this role. To examine whether
the complexity of EEG activity, measured by Higuchi fractal dimension (HFD) and
sample entropy (SampEn), differs between healthy subjects, patients in
remission and episode phase of the recurrent depression and whether the changes
are differentially distributed between hemispheres and cortical regions.
Resting state EEG with eyes closed was recorded from 26 patients suffering from
recurrent depression and 20 age and sex-matched healthy control subjects.
Artefact-free EEG epochs were analyzed by in-house developed programs running
HFD and SampEn algorithms. Depressed patients had higher HFD and SampEn
complexity compared to healthy subjects. Surprisingly, the complexity was even
higher in patients who were in remission than in those in the episode. Altered
complexity was present in the frontal and centro-parietal regions when compared
to the control group. The complexity in frontal and parietal regions differed
between the two phases of depressive disorder. SampEn manifested higher
sensitivity than HFD in some cortical areas. Complexity measures of EEG
distinguish between the three groups. Further studies are needed to establish
whether these measures carry the potential to aid clinically relevant decisions
about depression.