Robust spatial memory maps encoded in networks with transient
  connections
The spiking activity of principal cells in mammalian hippocampus encodes an
internalized neuronal representation of the ambient space---a cognitive map.
Once learned, such a map enables the animal to navigate a given environment for
a long period. However, the neuronal substrate that produces this map remains
transient: the synaptic connections in the hippocampus and in the downstream
neuronal networks never cease to form and to deteriorate at a rapid rate. How
can the brain maintain a robust, reliable representation of space using a
network that constantly changes its architecture? Here, we demonstrate, using
novel Algebraic Topology techniques, that cognitive map's stability is a
generic, emergent phenomenon. The model allows evaluating the effect produced
by specific physiological parameters, e.g., the distribution of connections'
decay times, on the properties of the cognitive map as a whole. It also points
out that spatial memory deterioration caused by weakening or excessive loss of
the synaptic connections may be compensated by simulating the neuronal
activity. Lastly, the model explicates functional importance of the
complementary learning systems for processing spatial information at different
levels of spatiotemporal granularity, by establishing three complementary
timescales at which spatial information unfolds. Thus, the model provides a
principal insight into how can the brain develop a reliable representation of
the world, learn and retain memories despite complex plasticity of the
underlying networks and allows studying how instabilities and memory
deterioration mechanisms may affect learning process.