Hypothesis Testing For Network Data in Functional Neuroimaging
In recent years, it has become common practice in neuroscience to use
networks to summarize relational information in a set of measurements,
typically assumed to be reflective of either functional or structural
relationships between regions of interest in the brain. One of the most basic
tasks of interest in the analysis of such data is the testing of hypotheses, in
answer to questions such as "Is there a difference between the networks of
these two groups of subjects?" In the classical setting, where the unit of
interest is a scalar or a vector, such questions are answered through the use
of familiar two-sample testing strategies. Networks, however, are not Euclidean
objects, and hence classical methods do not directly apply. We address this
challenge by drawing on concepts and techniques from geometry, and
high-dimensional statistical inference. Our work is based on a precise
geometric characterization of the space of graph Laplacian matrices and a
nonparametric notion of averaging due to Fr\'echet. We motivate and illustrate
our resulting methodologies for testing in the context of networks derived from
functional neuroimaging data on human subjects from the 1000 Functional
Connectomes Project. In particular, we show that this global test is more
statistical powerful, than a mass-univariate approach. In addition, we have
also provided a method for visualizing the individual contribution of each edge
to the overall test statistic.