Temporal differentiation and the optimization of system output
This paper develops a set of simplified dynamical models with which to
explore the conditions under which temporal differentiation leads to optimized
system output. By temporal differentiation, we mean a division of labor whereby
different subtasks associated with performing a given task are done at
different times. The idea is that, by focusing on one particular set of
subtasks at a time, it is possible to increase the efficiency with which each
subtask is performed, thereby allowing for faster completion of the overall
task. For this paper, we consider a process whereby some resource is converted
into some final product in a series of three agent-mediated steps. Temporal
differentiation is incorporated by allowing the agents to oscillate between
performing the first two steps and performing the last step. We find that
temporal differentiation is favored when the number of agents is small, and
when the process intermediates have a much longer lifetime than the original
resource. Within the framework of biological systems, we argue that these
results provide a possible evolutionary basis for the emergence of sleep, and
also of distinct REM and non-REM sleep states. We also discuss our use of a
three-step model. Briefly, in order for temporal differentiation to increase
product output in a mean-field description of resource metabolism, it is
necessary for temporal differentiation to have a nonlinear effect on individual
process rates. For stochastic models, we argue that temporal differentiation
can increase product output even in fundamentally linear systems.