State Dependence of Stimulus-Induced Variability Tuning in Macaque MT
Behavioral states marked by varying levels of arousal and attention modulate
some properties of cortical responses (e.g. average firing rates or pairwise
correlations), yet it is not fully understood what drives these response
changes and how they might affect downstream stimulus decoding. Here we show
that changes in state modulate the tuning of response variance-to-mean ratios
(Fano factors) in a fashion that is neither predicted by a Poisson spiking
model nor changes in the mean firing rate, with a substantial effect on
stimulus discriminability. We recorded motion-sensitive neurons in middle
temporal cortex (MT) in two states: alert fixation and light, opioid
anesthesia. Anesthesia tended to lower average spike counts, without decreasing
trial-to-trial variability compared to the alert state. Under anesthesia,
within-trial fluctuations in excitability were correlated over longer time
scales compared to the alert state, creating supra-Poisson Fano factors. In
contrast, alert-state MT neurons have higher mean firing rates and largely
sub-Poisson variability that is stimulus-dependent and cannot be explained by
firing rate differences alone. The absence of such stimulus-induced variability
tuning in the anesthetized state suggests different sources of variability
between states. A simple model explains state-dependent shifts in the
distribution of observed Fano factors via a suppression in the variance of gain
fluctuations in the alert state. A population model with stimulus-induced
variability tuning and behaviorally constrained information-limiting
correlations explores the potential enhancement in stimulus discriminability by
the cortical population in the alert state.