Reduced structural connectivity between left auditory thalamus and the
  motion-sensitive planum temporale in developmental dyslexia
Developmental dyslexia is characterized by the inability to acquire typical
reading and writing skills. Dyslexia has been frequently linked to cerebral
cortex alterations; however recent evidence also points towards sensory
thalamus dysfunctions: dyslexics showed reduced responses in the left auditory
thalamus (medial geniculate body, MGB) during speech processing in contrast to
neurotypical readers. In addition, in the visual modality, dyslexics have
reduced structural connectivity between the left visual thalamus (lateral
geniculate nucleus, LGN) and V5/MT, a cerebral cortex region involved in visual
movement processing. Higher LGN-V5/MT connectivity in dyslexics was associated
with the faster rapid naming of letters and numbers (RANln), a measure that is
highly correlated with reading proficiency. We here tested two hypotheses that
were directly derived from these previous findings. First, we tested the
hypothesis that dyslexics have reduced structural connectivity between the left
MGB and the auditory motion-sensitive part of the left planum temporale (mPT).
Second, we hypothesized that the amount of left mPT-MGB connectivity correlates
with dyslexics RANln scores. Using diffusion tensor imaging based probabilistic
tracking we show that male adults with developmental dyslexia have reduced
structural connectivity between the left MGB and the left mPT, confirming the
first hypothesis. Stronger left mPT-MGB connectivity was not associated with
faster RANnl scores in dyslexics, but in neurotypical readers. Our findings
provide first evidence that reduced cortico-thalamic connectivity in the
auditory modality is a feature of developmental dyslexia, and that it may also
impact on reading related cognitive abilities in neurotypical readers.