Phase transition in the economically modeled growth of a cellular
  nervous system
Spatially-embedded complex networks, such as nervous systems, the Internet
and transportation networks, generally have non-trivial topological patterns of
connections combined with nearly minimal wiring costs. However the growth rules
shaping these economical trade-offs between cost and topology are not well
understood. Here we study the cellular nervous system of the nematode worm C.
elegans, together with information on the birth times of neurons and on their
spatial locations. We find that the growth of this network undergoes a
transition from an accelerated to a constant increase in the number of links
(synaptic connections) as a function of the number of nodes (neurons). The time
of this phase transition coincides closely with the observed moment of
hatching, when development switches metamorphically from oval to larval stages.
We use graph analysis and generative modelling to show that the transition
between different growth regimes, as well as its coincidence with the moment of
hatching, can be explained by a dynamic economical model which incorporates a
trade-off between topology and cost that is continuously negotiated and
re-negotiated over developmental time. As the body of the animal progressively
elongates, the cost of longer distance connections is increasingly penalised.
This growth process regenerates many aspects of the adult nervous system's
organization, including the neuronal membership of anatomically pre-defined
ganglia. We expect that similar economical principles can be found in the
development of other biological or man-made spatially-embedded complex systems.