Information integration from distributed threshold-based interactions
We consider a collection of distributed units that interact with one another
through the sending of messages. Each message carries a positive ($+1$) or
negative ($-1$) tag and causes the receiving unit to send out messages as a
function of the tags it has received and a threshold. This simple model
abstracts some of the essential characteristics of several systems used in the
field of artificial intelligence, and also of biological systems epitomized by
the brain. We study the integration of information inside a temporal window as
the model's dynamics unfolds. We quantify information integration by the total
correlation, relative to the window's duration ($w$), of a set of random
variables valued as a function of message arrival. Total correlation refers to
the rise of information gain above and beyond that which the units already
achieve individually, being therefore related to consciousness studies in some
models. We report on extensive computational experiments that explore the
interrelations of the model's parameters (two probabilities and the threshold),
highlighting relevant scenarios of message traffic and how they impact the
behavior of total correlation as a function of $w$. We find that total
correlation can occur at significant fractions of the maximum possible value
and provide semi-analytical results on the message-traffic characteristics
associated with values of $w$ for which it peaks. We then reinterpret the
model's parameters in terms of the current best estimates of some quantities
pertaining to cortical structure and dynamics. We find the resulting
possibilities for best values of $w$ to be well aligned with the time frames
within which percepts are thought to be processed and eventually rendered
conscious.