Developmental time windows for axon growth influence neuronal network
  topology
Early brain connectivity development consists of multiple stages: birth of
neurons, their migration and the subsequent growth of axons and dendrites. Each
stage occurs within a certain period of time depending on types of neurons and
cortical layers. Forming synapses between neurons either by growing axons
starting at similar times for all neurons (much-overlapped time windows) or at
different time points (less-overlapped) may affect the topological and spatial
properties of neuronal networks. Here, we explore the extreme cases of axon
formation especially concerning short-distance connectivity during early
development, either starting at the same time for all neurons (parallel, i.e.
maximally-overlapped time windows) or occurring for each neuron separately one
neuron after another (serial, i.e. no overlaps in time windows). For both
cases, the number of potential and established synapses remained comparable.
Topological and spatial properties, however, differed: neurons that started
axon growth early on in serial growth achieved higher out-degrees, higher local
efficiency, and longer axon lengths while neurons demonstrated more homogeneous
connectivity patterns for parallel growth. Second, connection probability
decreased more rapidly with distance between neurons for parallel growth than
for serial growth. Third, bidirectional connections were more numerous for
parallel growth. Finally, we tested our predictions with C. elegans data.
Together, this indicates that time windows for axon growth influence the
topological and spatial properties of neuronal networks opening the possibility
to a posteriori estimate developmental mechanisms based on network properties
of a developed network.