Consciousness as a global property of brain dynamic activity
We seek general principles of the structure of the cellular collective
activity associated with conscious awareness. Can we obtain evidence for
features of the optimal brain organization that allows for adequate processing
of stimuli and that may guide the emergence of cognition and consciousness?
Analysing brain recordings in conscious and unconscious states, we followed
initially the classic approach in physics when it comes to understanding
collective behaviours of systems composed of a myriad of units: the assessment
of the number of possible configurations (microstates) that the system can
adopt, for which we use a global entropic measure associated with the number of
connected brain regions. Having found maximal entropy in conscious states, we
then inspected the microscopic nature of the configurations of connections
using an adequate complexity measure, and found higher complexity in states
characterised not only by conscious awareness but also by subconscious
cognitive processing, such as sleep stages. Our observations indicate that
conscious awareness is associated with maximal global (macroscopic) entropy and
with the short time scale (microscopic) complexity of the configurations of
connected brain networks in pathological unconscious states (seizures and
coma), but the microscopic view captures the high complexity in physiological
unconscious states (sleep) where there is information processing. As such, our
results support the global nature of conscious awareness, as advocated by
several theories of cognition. We thus hope that our studies represent
preliminary steps to reveal aspects of the structure of cognition that leads to
conscious awareness.