Spectral dissociation of lateralized pairs of brain rhythms
Using high resolution spectral methods to uncover neuromarkers of social,
cognitive and behavioral function, we have found that hemi-lateralized pairs of
oscillations such as left and right occipital alpha, or left and right rolandic
mu dissociate spectrally. That is, they show a shifted frequency distribution,
with one member of the pair peaking at a slightly lower frequency than the
other. To illustrate the phenomenon, we analyze EEG spatio-spectral patterns
providing examples of dissociations in the 10Hz frequency band. Our
observations suggest that homologous pairs of neuromarkers have distinct
intrinsic frequencies and only transiently coordinate their oscillations into
synchronous ensembles. On occasion, hemi-lateralized pairs are observed to
blend into medial aggregates, leading to strongly coherent dynamics. We
hypothesize that spectral dissociation plays a role in the balance of
integration and segregation in the brain: separation of oscillations from
homologous cortical areas allows them to function independently under certain
circumstances, while preserving a potential for stronger interactions supported
by structural and functional symmetries. As a method, spectral dissociation may
be harnessed to better track the individual power of each member of a
hemi-lateralized pair, and their respective time-courses. Resulting insights
may shed light on the functional interaction between homologous cortices in
studies of attention (alpha), e.g. during perceptual and social interaction
tasks, and in studies of somatomotor processing (mu), e.g. in bimanual
coordination and brain computer interfaces.