Visual Information flow in Wilson-Cowan networks
In this work we study the communication efficiency of a
psychophysically-tuned cascade of Wilson-Cowan and Divisive Normalization
layers that simulate the retina-V1 pathway. This is the first analysis of
Wilson-Cowan networks in terms of multivariate total correlation. The
parameters of the cortical model have been derived through the relation between
the steady state of the Wilson-Cowan model and the Divisive Normalization
model.
  The communication efficiency has been analyzed in two ways: First, we provide
an analytical expression for the reduction of the total correlation among the
responses of a V1-like population after the application of the Wilson-Cowan
interaction. Second, we empirically study the efficiency with visual stimuli
and statistical tools that were not available before: (1) we use a recent,
radiometrically calibrated, set of natural scenes, and (2) we use a recent
technique to estimate the multivariate total correlation in bits from sets of
visual responses which only involves univariate operations, thus giving better
estimates of the redundancy.
  The theoretical and the empirical results show that although this cascade of
layers was not optimized for statistical independence in any way, the
redundancy between the responses gets substantially reduced along the neural
pathway. Specifically, we show that (1)~the efficiency of a Wilson-Cowan
network is similar to its equivalent Divisive Normalization model, (2) while
initial layers (Von-Kries adaptation and Weber-like brightness) contribute to
univariate equalization, the bigger contributions to the reduction in total
correlation come from the computation of nonlinear local contrast and the
application of local oriented filters, and (3)~psychophysically-tuned models
are more efficient (reduce more total correlation) in the more populated
regions of the luminance-contrast plane.