Achieving Diverse and Monoallelic Olfactory Receptor Selection Through
  Dual-Objective Optimization Design
Multiple-objective optimization is common in biological systems. In the
mammalian olfactory system, each sensory neuron stochastically expresses only
one out of up to thousands of olfactory receptor (OR) gene alleles; at organism
level the types of expressed ORs need to be maximized. Existing models focus
only on monoallele activation, and cannot explain recent observations in
mutants, especially the reduced global diversity of expressed ORs in G9a/GLP
knockouts. In this work we integrated existing information on OR expression,
and constructed a comprehensive model that has all its components based on
physical interactions. Analyzing the model reveals an evolutionarily optimized
three-layer regulation mechanism, which includes zonal segregation, epigenetic
barrier crossing coupled to a negative feedback loop that mechanistically
differs from previous theoretical proposals, and a previously unidentified
enhancer competition step. This model not only recapitulates monoallelic OR
expression, but also elucidates how the olfactory system maximizes and
maintains the diversity of OR expression, and has multiple predictions
validated by existing experimental results. Through making analogy to a
physical system with thermally activated barrier crossing and comparative
reverse engineering analyses, the study reveals that the olfactory receptor
selection system is optimally designed, and particularly underscores
cooperativity and synergy as a general design principle for multi-objective
optimization in biology.