Category learning can alter perception and its neural correlates
Learned Categorical Perception (CP) occurs when the members of different
categories come to look more dissimilar (between-category separation) and/or
members of the same category come to look more similar (within-category
compression) after a new category has been learned. To measure learned CP and
its physiological correlates we compared dissimilarity judgments and Event
Related Potentials (ERPs) before and after learning to sort multi-featured
visual textures into two categories by trial and error with corrective
feedback. With the same number of trials and feedback, about half the
participants succeeded in learning the categories (learners: criterion 80%
accuracy) and the rest did not (non-learners). At both lower and higher levels
of difficulty, successful learners showed significant between-category
separation in pairwise dissimilarity judgments after learning compared to
before; their late parietal ERP positivity (LPC, usually interpreted as
decisional) also increased and their occipital negativity (N1) (usually
interpreted as perceptual) decreased. LPC increased with response accuracy and
N1 amplitude decreased with between-category separation for the Learners.
Non-learners showed no significant changes in dissimilarity judgments, LPC or
N1, within or between categories. This is behavioral and physiological evidence
that category learning can alter perception. We sketch a neural net model for
this effect.