Dynamic network drivers of seizure generation, propagation and
  termination in human epilepsy
Drug-resistant epilepsy is traditionally characterized by pathologic cortical
tissue comprised of seizure-initiating `foci'. These `foci' are thought to be
embedded within an epileptic network whose functional architecture dynamically
reorganizes during seizures through synchronous and asynchronous
neurophysiologic processes. Critical to understanding these dynamics is
identifying the synchronous connections that link foci to surrounding tissue
and investigating how these connections facilitate seizure generation and
termination. We use intracranial recordings from neocortical epilepsy patients
undergoing pre-surgical evaluation to analyze functional connectivity before
and during seizures. We develop and apply a novel technique to track network
reconfiguration in time and to parse these reconfiguration dynamics into
distinct seizure states, each characterized by unique patterns of network
connections that differ in their strength and topography. Our approach suggests
that seizures are generated when the synchronous relationships that isolate
seizure `foci' from the surrounding epileptic network are broken down. As
seizures progress, foci reappear as isolated subnetworks, marking a shift in
network state that may aid seizure termination. Collectively, our observations
have important theoretical implications for understanding the spatial
involvement of distributed cortical structures in the dynamics of seizure
generation, propagation and termination, and have practical significance in
determining which circuits to modulate with implantable devices.