Network algorithmics and the emergence of synchronization in cortical
  models
When brain signals are recorded in an electroencephalogram or some similar
large-scale record of brain activity, oscillatory patterns are typically
observed that are thought to reflect the aggregate electrical activity of the
underlying neuronal ensemble. Although it now seems that such patterns
participate in feedback loops both temporally with the neurons' spikes and
spatially with other brain regions, the mechanisms that might explain the
existence of such loops have remained essentially unknown. Here we present a
theoretical study of these issues on a cortical model we introduced earlier
[Nathan A, Barbosa VC (2010) Network algorithmics and the emergence of the
cortical synaptic-weight distribution. Phys Rev E 81: 021916]. We start with
the definition of two synchronization measures that aim to capture the
synchronization possibilities offered by the model regarding both the overall
spiking activity of the neurons and the spiking activity that causes the
immediate firing of the postsynaptic neurons. We present computational results
on our cortical model, on a model that is random in the Erd\H{o}s-R\'enyi
sense, and on a structurally deterministic model. We have found that the
algorithmic component underlying our cortical model ultimately provides,
through the two synchronization measures, a strong quantitative basis for the
emergence of both types of synchronization in all cases. This, in turn, may
explain the rise both of temporal feedback loops in the neurons' combined
electrical activity and of spatial feedback loops as brain regions that are
spatially separated engage in rhythmic behavior.