Diversity-enabled sweet spots in layered architectures and
  speed-accuracy trade-offs in sensorimotor control
Nervous systems sense, communicate, compute, and actuate movement using
distributed components with trade-offs in speed, accuracy, sparsity, noise, and
saturation. Nevertheless, the resulting control can achieve remarkably fast,
accurate, and robust performance due to a highly effective layered control
architecture. However, there is no theory explaining the effectiveness of
layered control architectures that connects speed-accuracy trade-offs (SATs) in
neurophysiology to the resulting SATs in sensorimotor control. In this paper,
we introduce a theoretical framework that provides a synthetic perspective to
explain why there exists extreme diversity across layers and within levels.
This framework characterizes how the sensorimotor control SATs are constrained
by the hardware SATs of neurons communicating with spikes and their sensory and
muscle endpoints, in both stochastic and deterministic models. The theoretical
predictions of the model are experimentally confirmed using driving experiments
in which the time delays and accuracy of the control input from the wheel are
varied. These results show that the appropriate diversity in the properties of
neurons and muscles across layers and within levels help create systems that
are both fast and accurate despite being built from components that are
individually slow or inaccurate. This novel concept, which we call
"diversity-enabled sweet spots" (DESSs), explains the ubiquity of heterogeneity
in the sizes of axons within a nerve as well the resulting superior performance
of sensorimotor control.