Dynamics of a large system of spiking neurons with synaptic delay
We analyze a large system of heterogeneous quadratic integrate-and-fire (QIF)
neurons with time delayed, all-to-all synaptic coupling. The model is exactly
reduced to a system of firing rate equations that is exploited to investigate
the existence, stability and bifurcations of fully synchronous, partially
synchronous, and incoherent states. In conjunction with this analysis we
perform extensive numerical simulations of the original network of QIF neurons,
and determine the relation between the macroscopic and microscopic states for
partially synchronous states. The results are summarized in two phase diagrams,
for homogeneous and heterogeneous populations, which are obtained analytically
to a large extent. For excitatory coupling, the phase diagram is remarkably
similar to that of the Kuramoto model with time delays, although here the
stability boundaries extend to regions in parameter space where the neurons are
not self-sustained oscillators. In contrast, the structure of the boundaries
for inhibitory coupling is different, and already for homogeneous networks
unveils the presence of various partially synchronized states not present in
the Kuramoto model: Collective chaos, quasiperiodic partial synchronization
(QPS), and a novel state which we call modulated-QPS (M-QPS). In the presence
of heterogeneity partially synchronized states reminiscent to collective chaos,
QPS and M-QPS persist. In addition, the presence of heterogeneity greatly
amplifies the differences between the incoherence stability boundaries of
excitation and inhibition. Finally, we compare our results with those of a
traditional (Wilson Cowan-type) firing rate model with time delays. The
oscillatory instabilities of the traditional firing rate model qualitatively
agree with our results only for the case of inhibitory coupling with strong
heterogeneity.