The Neural Basis and Evolution of Divergent and Convergent Thought
This chapter takes as its departure point a neural level theory of insight
that arose from studies of the sparse, distributed, content-addressable
architecture of associative memory. It is argued that convergent thought is
most fruitfully characterized in terms of, not the generation of a single
correct solution (as it is conventionally construed), but using concepts in
their most compact form by activating neural cell assemblies that respond to
their most typical properties. This allows them to be deployed in a
conventional manner such that effort is reserved for exploring causal
relationships. Conversely, it is argued that divergent thought is most
fruitfully characterized in terms of, not the generation of multiple solutions
(as it is conventionally construed), but using concepts in a form that is,
albeit expanded, constrained by the situation, by activating neural cell
assemblies that respond to context-specific atypical properties. This allows
them to be deployed in a manner that is conducive to exploring unconventional
yet potentially relevant associations, and unearthing potentially useful
relationships of correlation. Thus, divergent thought can involve as few as one
idea. This proposal is compatible with widespread beliefs that (1) most
creative tasks require not many solutions but one, yet entail both divergent
and convergent thinking, and (2) not all problems with multiple solutions
require creative thinking, and conversely, some problems with single solution
do require creative thought. The chapter discusses how the ability to shift
between convergent and divergent modes of thought may have evolved, and it
concludes with educational and vocational implications.