Response statistics dissect the contributions of different sources of
  variability to population activity in V1
Response variability, as measured by fluctuating responses upon repeated
performance of trials, is a major component of neural responses, and its
characterization is key to interpret high dimensional population recordings.
Response variability and covariability display predictable changes upon changes
in stimulus and cognitive or behavioral state, providing an opportunity to test
the predictive power of models of neural variability. Still, there is little
agreement on which model to use as a building block for population-level
analyses, and models of variability are often treated as a subject of choice.
We investigate two competing models, the Doubly Stochastic Poisson (DSP) model
assuming stochasticity at spike generation, and the Rectified Gaussian (RG)
model that traces variability back to membrane potential variance, to analyze
stimulus-dependent modulation of response statistics. Using a model of a pair
of neurons, we demonstrate that the two models predict similar single-cell
statistics. However, DSP and RG models have contradicting predictions on the
joint statistics of spiking responses. In order to test the models against
data, we build a population model to simulate stimulus change-related
modulations in response statistics. We use unit recordings from the primary
visual cortex of monkeys to show that while model predictions for variance are
qualitatively similar to experimental data, only the RG model's predictions are
compatible with joint statistics. These results suggest that models using
Poisson-like variability might fail to capture important properties of response
statistics. We argue that membrane potential-level modelling of stochasticity
provides an efficient strategy to model correlations.