An Analytical Approach to Connectivity in Regular Neuronal Networks
This paper describes how realistic neuromorphic networks can have their
connectivity fully characterized in analytical fashion. By assuming that all
neurons have the same shape and are regularly distributed along the
two-dimensional orthogonal lattice with parameter $\Delta$, it is possible to
obtain the exact number of connections and cycles of any length from the
autoconvolution function as well as from the respective spectral density
derived from the adjacency matrix. It is shown that neuronal shape plays an
important role in defining the spatial distribution of synapses in neuronal
networks. In addition, we observe that neuromorphic networks typically exhibit
an interesting phenomenon where the pattern of connections is progressively
shifted along the spatial domain for increasing connection lengths. This is a
consequence of the fact that in neurons the axon reference point usually does
not coincide with the cell centre of mass. Morphological measurements for
characterization of the spatial distribution of connections, including the
adjacency matrix spectral density and the lacunarity of the connections, are
suggested and illustrated. We also show that Hopfield networks with
connectivity defined by different neuronal morphologies, quantified by the
proposed analytical approach, lead to distinct performace for associative
recall, as measured by the overlap index. The potential of the proposed
approach is illustrated with respect to digital images of real neuronal cells.