Prediction of severity and treatment outcome for ASD from fMRI
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental syndrome.
Early diagnosis and precise treatment are essential for ASD patients. Although
researchers have built many analytical models, there has been limited progress
in accurate predictive models for early diagnosis. In this project, we aim to
build an accurate model to predict treatment outcome and ASD severity from
early stage functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans. The difficulty
in building large databases of patients who have received specific treatments
and the high dimensionality of medical image analysis problems are challenges
in this work. We propose a generic and accurate two-level approach for
high-dimensional regression problems in medical image analysis. First, we
perform region-level feature selection using a predefined brain parcellation.
Based on the assumption that voxels within one region in the brain have similar
values, for each region we use the bootstrapped mean of voxels within it as a
feature. In this way, the dimension of data is reduced from number of voxels to
number of regions. Then we detect predictive regions by various feature
selection methods. Second, we extract voxels within selected regions, and
perform voxel-level feature selection. To use this model in both linear and
non-linear cases with limited training examples, we apply two-level elastic net
regression and random forest (RF) models respectively. To validate accuracy and
robustness of this approach, we perform experiments on both task-fMRI and
resting state fMRI datasets. Furthermore, we visualize the influence of each
region, and show that the results match well with other findings.