A unified view on weakly correlated recurrent networks
The diversity of neuron models used in contemporary theoretical neuroscience
to investigate specific properties of covariances raises the question how these
models relate to each other. In particular it is hard to distinguish between
generic properties and peculiarities due to the abstracted model. Here we
present a unified view on pairwise covariances in recurrent networks in the
irregular regime. We consider the binary neuron model, the leaky
integrate-and-fire model, and the Hawkes process. We show that linear
approximation maps each of these models to either of two classes of linear rate
models, including the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process as a special case. The classes
differ in the location of additive noise in the rate dynamics, which is on the
output side for spiking models and on the input side for the binary model. Both
classes allow closed form solutions for the covariance. For output noise it
separates into an echo term and a term due to correlated input. The unified
framework enables us to transfer results between models. For example, we
generalize the binary model and the Hawkes process to the presence of
conduction delays and simplify derivations for established results. Our
approach is applicable to general network structures and suitable for
population averages. The derived averages are exact for fixed out-degree
network architectures and approximate for fixed in-degree. We demonstrate how
taking into account fluctuations in the linearization procedure increases the
accuracy of the effective theory and we explain the class dependent differences
between covariances in the time and the frequency domain. Finally we show that
the oscillatory instability emerging in networks of integrate-and-fire models
with delayed inhibitory feedback is a model-invariant feature: the same
structure of poles in the complex frequency plane determines the population
power spectra.