Model-free reconstruction of neuronal network connectivity from calcium
  imaging signals
A systematic assessment of global neural network connectivity through direct
electrophysiological assays has remained technically unfeasible even in
dissociated neuronal cultures. We introduce an improved algorithmic approach
based on Transfer Entropy to reconstruct approximations to network structural
connectivities from network activity monitored through calcium fluorescence
imaging. Based on information theory, our method requires no prior assumptions
on the statistics of neuronal firing and neuronal connections. The performance
of our algorithm is benchmarked on surrogate time-series of calcium
fluorescence generated by the simulated dynamics of a network with known
ground-truth topology. We find that the effective network topology revealed by
Transfer Entropy depends qualitatively on the time-dependent dynamic state of
the network (e.g., bursting or non-bursting). We thus demonstrate how
conditioning with respect to the global mean activity improves the performance
of our method. [...] Compared to other reconstruction strategies such as
cross-correlation or Granger Causality methods, our method based on improved
Transfer Entropy is remarkably more accurate. In particular, it provides a good
reconstruction of the network clustering coefficient, allowing to discriminate
between weakly or strongly clustered topologies, whereas on the other hand an
approach based on cross-correlations would invariantly detect artificially high
levels of clustering. Finally, we present the applicability of our method to
real recordings of in vitro cortical cultures. We demonstrate that these
networks are characterized by an elevated level of clustering compared to a
random graph (although not extreme) and by a markedly non-local connectivity.