Estimating regional cerebral blood flow using resting-state functional
  MRI via machine learning
Perfusion MRI is an important modality in many brain imaging protocols, since
it probes cerebrovascular changes in aging and many diseases; however, it may
not be always available. Here we introduce a method that seeks to estimate
regional perfusion properties using spectral information of resting-state
functional MRI (rsfMRI) via machine learning. We used pairs of rsfMRI and
arterial spin labeling (ASL) images from the same elderly individuals with
normal cognition (NC; n = 45) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 26), and
built support vector machine models aiming to estimate regional cerebral blood
flow (CBF) from the rsfMRI signal alone. This method demonstrated higher
associations between the estimated CBF and actual CBF (ASL-CBF) at the total
lobar gray matter (r = 0.40; FDR-p = 1.9e-03), parietal lobe (r = 0.46, FDR-p =
8e-04), and occipital lobe (r = 0.35; FDR-p = 0.01) using rsfMRI signals of
frequencies [0.01-0.15] Hertz compared to frequencies [0.01-0.10] Hertz and
[0.01-0.20] Hertz, respectively. We further observed significant associations
between the estimated CBF and actual CBF in 24 regions of interest (p < 0.05),
with the highest association observed in the superior parietal lobule (r =
0.50, FDR-p = 0.002). Moreover, the estimated CBF at superior parietal lobule
showed significant correlation with the mini-mental state exam (MMSE) score (r
= 0.27; FDR-p = 0.04) and decreased in MCI with lower MMSE score compared to NC
group (FDR-p = 0.04). Overall, these results suggest that the proposed
framework can obtain estimates of regional perfusion from rsfMRI, which can
serve as surrogate perfusion measures in the absence of ASL.