On The Ignition, Propagation and Termination Of The Neuronal Bursting
  Activity During Ictogenesis In Epileptic Patients
Epilepsy creates a persistent increase in the probability of spontaneous
seizures. An ictal episode evolves due to acute disturbance of the fine-tuned
balance between excitatory vs. inhibitory inputs within a neural network in
favor of excitation. The current literature that proposes the
activity-dependent disinhibition as a valid mechanism of chronic epilepsy, does
not provide clues on why this mechanism emerges only in epileptic patients and
how the vicious circle resulting of an activity-dependent disinhibition in
over-active ictogenic network would end. A new model, which presents chronic
epilepsy as a disease of faulty architecture of the neural circuit, is
discussed. Wherein; variable genetic or acquired predisposing factors drive
abnormalities in the construction of multiple neural circuits resulting in an
activity-dependent positive feedback excitatory loops which transform normal
neural circuits into ictal foci. Such new mechanism, for igniting an
activity-dependent unstable excitation with subsequent relatively stable
disinhibition, leads to an ictal escape rhythm. The propagation of such
bursting activity occurs either electrochemically via synaptic communication to
remote susceptible circuits, or chemically via a trigger wave which recruits
the non-connected proximal neurons. Termination occurs abruptly when the
inhibitory interneurons functionally recover and reimpose their inhibitory
effect on the ictogenic circuit to transform the escape rhythm into a normal,
under-control output. The proposed model elucidates various enigmatic features
of the disease; and illustrates both the end-result ictogenic mechanism arising
from the wide variety of etiologies of human spontaneous and acquired epilepsy,
and the timing of episodic transitions from normal activity to seizures.