Dynamic fluctuations coincide with periods of high and low modularity in
  resting-state functional brain networks
We investigate the relationship of resting-state fMRI functional connectivity
estimated over long periods of time with time-varying functional connectivity
estimated over shorter time intervals. We show that using Pearson's correlation
to estimate functional connectivity implies that the range of fluctuations of
functional connections over short time scales is subject to statistical
constraints imposed by their connectivity strength over longer scales. We
present a method for estimating time-varying functional connectivity that is
designed to mitigate this issue and allows us to identify episodes where
functional connections are unexpectedly strong or weak. We apply this method to
data recorded from $N=80$ participants, and show that the number of
unexpectedly strong/weak connections fluctuates over time, and that these
variations coincide with intermittent periods of high and low modularity in
time-varying functional connectivity. We also find that during periods of
relative quiescence regions associated with default mode network tend to join
communities with attentional, control, and primary sensory systems. In
contrast, during periods where many connections are unexpectedly strong/weak,
default mode regions dissociate and form distinct modules. Finally, we go on to
show that, while all functional connections can at times manifest stronger
(more positively correlated) or weaker (more negatively correlated) than
expected, a small number of connections, mostly within the visual and
somatomotor networks, do so a disproportional number of times. Our statistical
approach allows the detection of functional connections that fluctuate more or
less than expected based on their long-time averages and may be of use in
future studies characterizing the spatio-temporal patterns of time-varying
functional connectivity