Grid Alignment in Entorhinal Cortex
The spatial responses of many of the cells recorded in all layers of rodent
medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) show a triangular grid pattern, and once
established might be based in part on path-integration mechanisms. Grid axes
are tightly aligned across simultaneously recorded units. Recent experimental
findings have shown that grids can often be better described as elliptical
rather than purely circular and that, beyond the mutual alignment of their grid
axes, ellipses tend to also orient their long axis along preferred directions.
Are grid alignment and ellipse orientation the same phenomenon? Does the grid
alignment result from single-unit mechanisms or does it require network
interactions?
  We address these issues by refining our model, to describe specifically the
spontaneous emergence of conjunctive grid-by-head-direction cells in layers
III, V and VI of mEC. We find that tight alignment can be produced by recurrent
collateral interactions, but this requires head-direction modulation. Through a
competitive learning process driven by spatial inputs, grid fields then form
already aligned, and with randomly distributed spatial phases. In addition, we
find that the self-organization process is influenced by the behavior of the
simulated rat. The common grid alignment often orients along preferred running
directions. The shape of individual grids is distorted towards an ellipsoid
arrangement when some speed anisotropy is present in exploration behavior.
Speed anisotropy on its own also tends to align grids, even without
collaterals, but the alignment is seen to be loose. Finally, the alignment of
spatial grid fields in multiple environments shows that the network expresses
the same set of grid fields across environments, modulo a coherent rotation and
translation. Thus, an efficient metric encoding of space may emerge through
spontaneous pattern formation at the single-unit level.