A role for recurrent processing in object completion:
  neurophysiological, psychophysical and computational"evidence
Recognition of objects from partial information presents a significant
challenge for theories of vision because it requires spatial integration and
extrapolation from prior knowledge. We combined neurophysiological recordings
in human cortex with psychophysical measurements and computational modeling to
investigate the mechanisms involved in object completion. We recorded
intracranial field potentials from 1,699 electrodes in 18 epilepsy patients to
measure the timing and selectivity of responses along human visual cortex to
whole and partial objects. Responses along the ventral visual stream remained
selective despite showing only 9-25% of the object. However, these visually
selective signals emerged ~100 ms later for partial versus whole objects. The
processing delays were particularly pronounced in higher visual areas within
the ventral stream, suggesting the involvement of additional recurrent
processing. In separate psychophysics experiments, disrupting this recurrent
computation with a backward mask at ~75ms significantly impaired recognition of
partial, but not whole, objects. Additionally, computational modeling shows
that the performance of a purely bottom-up architecture is impaired by heavy
occlusion and that this effect can be partially rescued via the incorporation
of top-down connections. These results provide spatiotemporal constraints on
theories of object recognition that involve recurrent processing to recognize
objects from partial information.