Cognitive Control in the Controllable Connectome
Cognition is supported by neurophysiological processes that occur both in
local anatomical neighborhoods and in distributed large-scale circuits. Recent
evidence from network control theory suggests that white matter pathways
linking large-scale brain regions provide a critical substrate constraining the
ability of single areas to affect control on those processes. Yet, no direct
evidence exists for a relationship between brain network controllability and
cognitive control performance. Here, we address this gap by constructing
structural brain networks from diffusion tensor imaging data acquired in 125
healthy adult individuals. We define a simplified model of brain dynamics and
simulate network control to quantify modal and boundary controllability, which
together describe complementary features of a region's theoretically predicted
preference to drive the brain into different cognitive states. We observe that
individual differences in these control features derived from structural
connectivity are significantly correlated with individual differences in
cognitive control performance, as measured by a continuous performance
attention test, a color/shape switching task, the Stroop inhibition task, and a
spatial n-back working memory task. Indeed, control hubs like anterior
cingulate are distinguished from default mode and frontal association areas in
terms of the relationship between their control properties and individual
differences in cognitive function. These results provide the first empirical
evidence that network control forms a fundamental mechanism of cognitive
control.