Principal Component Analysis for seizure characterization in EEG signals
A large variety of methods has been proposed for automatic seizure detection
in EEG signals. Those achieving maximal performance are based on
machine-learning techniques, which require long training sessions with large
labelled databases, and produce a verdict with no intuitive justification. As
an alternative, we here explore an unsupervised algorithm applicable to
intra-cranial EEG recordings that requires good sampling of the non-ictal
periods, but imposes no demands on the amount of data during ictal activity.
The algorithm analyses how the amount of power in each frequency band
fluctuates ( an evaluation physicians are familiar with ) and can be
implemented online. The analysis is performed electrode by electrode, thus
providing the spatio-temporal sequence in which the affected regions are
recruited into the crisis. We test it with 32 crisis registered in 5 patients,
for which we also have the degree of loss of consciousness as determined from a
behavioural analysis. The method can achieve a precision of 85% and a recall of
88% in the identification of seizures, and 77% and 88% in the identification of
recruited electrodes. The intuitive nature of the analysis allows us to
identify certain physiological features that are correlated with the degree of
loss of consciousness. For example, epileptic crisis in which the variance of
the power in the alpha band increases at around seizure onset are particularly
likely to impair consciousness. We conclude that the PCA of the distribution of
power in different frequency bands provides information both about the
detection and the characterization of epileptic seizures.