A Manifold Regularized Multi-Task Learning Model for IQ Prediction from
  Multiple fMRI Paradigms
Multi-modal brain functional connectivity (FC) data have shown great
potential for providing insights into individual variations in behavioral and
cognitive traits. The joint learning of multi-modal imaging data can utilize
the intrinsic association, and thus can boost the learning performance.
Although several multi-task based learning models have already been proposed by
viewing the feature learning on each modality as one task, most of them ignore
the geometric structure information inherent in the modalities, which may play
an important role in extracting discriminative features. In this paper, we
propose a new manifold regularized multi-task learning model by simultaneously
considering between-subject and between-modality relationships. Besides
employing a group-sparsity regularizer to jointly select a few common features
across multiple tasks (modalities), we design a novel manifold regularizer to
preserve the structure information both within and between modalities in our
model. This will make our model more adaptive for realistic data analysis. Our
model is then validated on the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort dataset,
where we regard our modalities as functional MRI (fMRI) data collected under
two paradigms. Specifically, we conduct experimental studies on fMRI based FC
network data in two task conditions for intelligence quotient (IQ) prediction.
The results demonstrate that our proposed model can not only achieve improved
prediction performance, but also yield a set of IQ-relevant biomarkers.