Identifying Brain Image Level Endophenotypes in Epilepsy
A brain wide association study (BWAS) based on the logistic regression was
first developed and applied to a large population of epilepsy patients (168)
and healthy controls (136). It was found that the most significant links
associated with epilepsy are those bilateral links with regions mainly
belonging to the default mode network and subcortex, such as amygdala, fusiform
gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, hippocampus, temporal pole, parahippocampal
gyrus, insula, middle occipital gyrus, cuneus. These links were found to have
much higher odd ratios than other links, and all of them showed reduced
functional couplings in patients compared with controls. Interestingly, with
the increasing of the seizure onset frequency or duration of illness, the
functional connection between these bilateral regions became further reduced.
On the other hand, as a functional compensation and brain plasticity,
connections of these bilateral regions to other brain regions were abnormally
enhanced and became even much stronger with the increase of the seizure onset
frequency. Furthermore, patients had higher network efficiencies than healthy
controls, and the seizure onset frequency was found to be positively correlated
with the network efficiency. A negative correlation between the bilateral
connection and the network efficiency was also observed. To further validate
our findings, we then employed our BWAS results in discriminating patients from
healthy controls and the leave-one-out accuracy was around 78%. Given the fact
that a genome-wide association study with a large cohort has failed to identify
any significant association between genes and epilepsy, our study could provide
us with a set of endophenotypes for further study.