Structure and Dynamics of Brain Lobes Functional Networks at the Onset
  of Anesthesia Induced Loss of Consciousness
Anesthetic agents are neurotropic drugs able to induce dramatic alterations
in the thalamo-cortical system, promoting a drastic reduction in awareness and
level of consciousness. There is experimental evidence that general anesthesia
impacts large scale functional networks leading to alterations in the brain
state. However, the way anesthetics affect the structure assumed by functional
connectivity in different brain regions have not been reported yet. Within this
context, the present study has sought to characterize the functional brain
networks respective to the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes. In
this experiment, electro-physiological neural activity was recorded through the
use of a dense ECoG-electrode array positioned directly over the cortical
surface of an old world monkey of the species Macaca fuscata. Networks were
serially estimated over time at each five seconds, while the animal model was
under controlled experimental conditions of an anesthetic induction process. In
each one of the four cortical brain lobes, prominent alterations on distinct
properties of the networks evidenced a transition in the networks architecture,
which occurred within about one and a half minutes after the administration of
the anesthetics. The characterization of functional brain networks performed in
this study represents important experimental evidence and brings new knowledge
towards the understanding of neural correlates of consciousness in terms of the
structure and properties of the functional brain networks.