Bistable firing pattern in a neural network model
Excessively high, neural synchronisation has been associated with epileptic
seizures, one of the most common brain diseases worldwide. A better
understanding of neural synchronisation mechanisms can thus help control or
even treat epilepsy. In this paper, we study neural synchronisation in a random
network where nodes are neurons with excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and
neural activity for each node is provided by the adaptive exponential
integrate-and-fire model. In this framework, we verify that the decrease in the
influence of inhibition can generate synchronisation originating from a pattern
of desynchronised spikes. The transition from desynchronous spikes to
synchronous bursts of activity, induced by varying the synaptic coupling,
emerges in a hysteresis loop due to bistability where abnormal (excessively
high synchronous) regimes exist. We verify that, for parameters in the
bistability regime, a square current pulse can trigger excessively high
(abnormal) synchronisation, a process that can reproduce features of epileptic
seizures. Then, we show that it is possible to suppress such abnormal
synchronisation by applying a small-amplitude external current on less than 10%
of the neurons in the network. Our results demonstrate that external electrical
stimulation not only can trigger synchronous behaviour, but more importantly,
it can be used as a means to reduce abnormal synchronisation and thus, control
or treat effectively epileptic seizures.