Solving constraint-satisfaction problems with distributed
  neocortical-like neuronal networks
Finding actions that satisfy the constraints imposed by both external inputs
and internal representations is central to decision making. We demonstrate that
some important classes of constraint satisfaction problems (CSPs) can be solved
by networks composed of homogeneous cooperative-competitive modules that have
connectivity similar to motifs observed in the superficial layers of neocortex.
The winner-take-all modules are sparsely coupled by programming neurons that
embed the constraints onto the otherwise homogeneous modular computational
substrate. We show rules that embed any instance of the CSPs planar four-color
graph coloring, maximum independent set, and Sudoku on this substrate, and
provide mathematical proofs that guarantee these graph coloring problems will
convergence to a solution. The network is composed of non-saturating linear
threshold neurons. Their lack of right saturation allows the overall network to
explore the problem space driven through the unstable dynamics generated by
recurrent excitation. The direction of exploration is steered by the constraint
neurons. While many problems can be solved using only linear inhibitory
constraints, network performance on hard problems benefits significantly when
these negative constraints are implemented by non-linear multiplicative
inhibition. Overall, our results demonstrate the importance of instability
rather than stability in network computation, and also offer insight into the
computational role of dual inhibitory mechanisms in neural circuits.