Estimation of neural connections from partially observed neural spikes
Plasticity is one of the most important properties of the nervous system,
which enables animals to adjust their behavior to the ever-changing external
environment. Changes in synaptic efficacy between neurons constitute one of the
major mechanisms of plasticity. Therefore, estimation of neural connections is
crucial for investigating information processing in the brain. Although many
analysis methods have been proposed for this purpose, most of them suffer from
one or all the following mathematical difficulties: (1) only partially observed
neural activity is available; (2) correlations can include both direct and
indirect pseudo-interactions; and (3) biological evidence that a neuron
typically has only one type of connection (excitatory or inhibitory) should be
considered. To overcome these difficulties, a novel probabilistic framework for
estimating neural connections from partially observed spikes is proposed in
this paper. First, based on the property of a sum of random variables, the
proposed method estimates the influence of unobserved neurons on observed
neurons and extracts only the correlations among observed neurons. Second, the
relationship between pseudo-correlations and target connections is modeled by
neural propagation in a multiplicative manner. Third, a novel
information-theoretic framework is proposed for estimating neuron types. The
proposed method was validated using spike data generated by artificial neural
networks. In addition, it was applied to multi-unit data recorded from the CA1
area of a rat's hippocampus. The results confirmed that our estimates are
consistent with previous reports. These findings indicate that the proposed
method is useful for extracting crucial interactions in neural signals as well
as in other multi-probed point process data.