Graph analysis and modularity of brain functional connectivity networks:
  searching for the optimal threshold
Neuroimaging data can be represented as networks of nodes and edges that
capture the topological organization of the brain connectivity. Graph theory
provides a general and powerful framework to study these networks and their
structure at various scales. By way of example, community detection methods
have been widely applied to investigate the modular structure of many natural
networks, including brain functional connectivity networks. Sparsification
procedures are often applied to remove the weakest edges, which are the most
affected by experimental noise, and to reduce the density of the graph, thus
making it theoretically and computationally more tractable. However, weak links
may also contain significant structural information, and procedures to identify
the optimal tradeoff are the subject of active research. Here, we explore the
use of percolation analysis, a method grounded in statistical physics, to
identify the optimal sparsification threshold for community detection in brain
connectivity networks. By using synthetic networks endowed with a ground-truth
modular structure and realistic topological features typical of human brain
functional connectivity networks, we show that percolation analysis can be
applied to identify the optimal sparsification threshold that maximizes
information on the networks' community structure. We validate this approach
using three different community detection methods widely applied to the
analysis of brain connectivity networks: Newman's modularity, InfoMap and
Asymptotical Surprise. Importantly, we test the effects of noise and data
variability, which are critical factors to determine the optimal threshold.
This data-driven method should prove particularly useful in the analysis of the
community structure of brain networks in populations characterized by different
connectivity strengths, such as patients and controls.