A New Framework for Determination of Excitatory and Inhibitory
  Conductances Using Somatic Clamp
The interaction between excitation and inhibition is crucial for brain
computation. To understand synaptic mechanisms underlying brain function, it is
important to separate excitatory and inhibitory inputs to a target neuron. In
the traditional method, after applying somatic current or voltage clamp, the
excitatory and inhibitory conductances are determined from the synaptic
current-voltage (I-V) relation --- the slope corresponds to the total
conductance and the intercept corresponds to the reversal current. Because of
the space clamp effect, the measured conductance in general deviates
substantially from the local conductance on the dendrite. Therefore, the
interpretation of the conductance measured by the traditional method remains to
be clarified. In this work, based on the investigation of an idealized
ball-and-stick neuron model and a biologically realistic pyramidal neuron
model, we first demonstrate both analytically and numerically that the
conductance determined by the traditional method has no clear biological
interpretation due to the neglect of a nonlinear interaction between the clamp
current and the synaptic current across the spatial dendrites. As a
consequence, the traditional method can induce an arbitrarily large error of
conductance measurement, sometimes even leads to unphysically negative
conductance. To circumvent the difficulty of elucidating synaptic impact on
neuronal computation using the traditional method, we then propose a framework
to determine the effective conductance that reflects directly the functional
impact of synaptic inputs on action potential initiation and thereby neuronal
information processing. Our framework has been further verified in realistic
neuron simulations, thus greatly improves upon the traditional approach by
providing a reliable and accurate assessment of the role of synaptic activity
in neuronal computation.