Cusps Enable Line Attractors for Neural Computation
Line attractors in neuronal networks have been suggested to be the basis of
many brain functions, such as working memory, oculomotor control, head
movement, locomotion, and sensory processing. In this paper, we make the
connection between line attractors and pulse-gating in feedforward neuronal
networks. In this context, because of their neutral stability along a
one-dimensional manifold, line attractors are associated with a
time-translational invariance that allows graded information to be propagated
from one neuronal population to the next. To understand how pulse-gating
manifests itself in a high-dimensional, non-linear, feedforward
integrate-and-fire network, we use a Fokker-Planck approach to analyze system
dynamics. We make a connection between pulse-gated propagation in the
Fokker-Planck and population-averaged mean-field (firing rate) models, then
identify an approximate line attractor in state space as the essential
structure underlying graded information propagation. An analysis of the line
attractor shows that it consists of three fixed points: a central saddle with
an unstable manifold along the line and stable manifolds orthogonal to the
line, which is surrounded on either side by stable fixed points. Along the
manifold defined by the fixed points, slow dynamics give rise to a ghost. We
show that this line attractor arises at a cusp catastrophe, where a fold
bifurcation develops as a function of synaptic noise; and that the ghost
dynamics near the fold of the cusp underly the robustness of the line
attractor. Understanding the dynamical aspects of this cusp catastrophe allows
us to show how line attractors can persist in biologically realistic neuronal
networks and how the interplay of pulse gating, synaptic coupling and neuronal
stochasticity can be used to enable attracting one-dimensional manifolds and
thus, dynamically control the processing of graded information.