Neural Connectivity with Hidden Gaussian Graphical State-Model
The noninvasive procedures for neural connectivity are under questioning.
Theoretical models sustain that the electromagnetic field registered at
external sensors is elicited by currents at neural space. Nevertheless, what we
observe at the sensor space is a superposition of projected fields, from the
whole gray-matter. This is the reason for a major pitfall of noninvasive
Electrophysiology methods: distorted reconstruction of neural activity and its
connectivity or leakage. It has been proven that current methods produce
incorrect connectomes. Somewhat related to the incorrect connectivity
modelling, they disregard either Systems Theory and Bayesian Information
Theory. We introduce a new formalism that attains for it, Hidden Gaussian
Graphical State-Model (HIGGS). A neural Gaussian Graphical Model (GGM) hidden
by the observation equation of Magneto-encephalographic (MEEG) signals. HIGGS
is equivalent to a frequency domain Linear State Space Model (LSSM) but with
sparse connectivity prior. The mathematical contribution here is the theory for
high-dimensional and frequency-domain HIGGS solvers. We demonstrate that HIGGS
can attenuate the leakage effect in the most critical case: the distortion EEG
signal due to head volume conduction heterogeneities. Its application in EEG is
illustrated with retrieved connectivity patterns from human Steady State Visual
Evoked Potentials (SSVEP). We provide for the first time confirmatory evidence
for noninvasive procedures of neural connectivity: concurrent EEG and
Electrocorticography (ECoG) recordings on monkey. Open source packages are
freely available online, to reproduce the results presented in this paper and
to analyze external MEEG databases.