The impact of short term synaptic depression and stochastic vesicle
  dynamics on neural variability
Neural variability plays a central role in neural coding and neuronal network
dynamics. Unreliability of synaptic transmission is a major source of neural
variability: synaptic neurotransmitter vesicles are released probabilistically
in response to presynaptic spikes and are recovered stochastically in time. The
stochastic dynamics of this process interacts with variability in the arrival
times of presynaptic spikes to shape the variability of the postsynaptic
response. We use continuous time Markov chain methods to analyze a model of
short term synaptic depression with stochastic vesicle dynamics coupled with
three different models of presynaptic spiking: one model in which the timing of
presynaptic spikes are modeled as a Poisson process, one in which spikes occur
more regularly than a Poisson process and one in which spikes occur more
irregularly. We use this analysis to investigate how variability in a
presynaptic spike train is transformed by short term synaptic depression and
stochastic vesicle dynamics to determine the variability of the postsynaptic
response to a presynaptic spike train. We find that regular presynaptic spiking
increases the average rate at which vesicles are released, that the number of
vesicles released over a time window is more variable for smaller time windows
than for larger time windows, and that fast presynaptic spiking gives rise to
Poisson-like variability of the postsynaptic response even when presynaptic
spike times are highly non-Poisson. Our results complement and extend
previously reported theoretical results and provide possible explanations for
some trends observed in recorded data.