Influence of Neighborhood SES on Functional Brain Network Development
Higher socioeconomic status (SES) in childhood is associated with increased
cognitive abilities, higher academic achievement, and decreased incidence of
mental illness later in development. Accumulating evidence suggests that these
effects may be due to changes in brain development induced by environmental
factors. While prior work has mapped the associations between neighborhood SES
and brain structure, little is known about the relationship between SES and
intrinsic neural dynamics. Here, we capitalize upon a large community-based
sample (Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort, ages 8-22 years, n=1012) to
examine developmental changes in functional brain network topology as estimated
from resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging data. We
quantitatively characterize this topology using a local measure of network
segregation known as the clustering coefficient, and find that it accounts for
a greater degree of SES-associated variance than meso-scale segregation
captured by modularity. While whole-brain clustering increased with age,
high-SES youth displayed faster increases in clustering than low-SES youth, and
this effect was most pronounced for regions in the limbic, somatomotor, and
ventral attention systems. The effect of SES on developmental increases in
clustering was strongest for connections of intermediate physical length,
consistent with faster decreases in local connectivity in these regions in
low-SES youth, and tracked changes in BOLD signal complexity in the form of
regional homogeneity. Our findings suggest that neighborhood SES may
fundamentally alter intrinsic patterns of inter-regional interactions in the
human brain in a manner that is consistent with greater segregation of
information processing in late childhood and adolescence.