Lagged and instantaneous dynamical influences related to brain
  structural connectivity
Contemporary neuroimaging methods can shed light on the basis of human neural
and cognitive specializations, with important implications for neuroscience and
medicine. Different MRI acquisitions provide different brain networks at the
macroscale; whilst diffusion-weighted MRI (dMRI) provides a structural
connectivity (SC) coincident with the bundles of parallel fibers between brain
areas, functional MRI (fMRI) accounts for the variations in the
blood-oxygenation-level-dependent T2* signal, providing functional connectivity
(FC).Understanding the precise relation between FC and SC, that is, between
brain dynamics and structure, is still a challenge for neuroscience. To
investigate this problem, we acquired data at rest and built the corresponding
SC (with matrix elements corresponding to the fiber number between brain areas)
to be compared with FC connectivity matrices obtained by 3 different methods:
directed dependencies by an exploratory version of structural equation modeling
(eSEM), linear correlations (C) and partial correlations (PC). We also
considered the possibility of using lagged correlations in time series; so, we
compared a lagged version of eSEM and Granger causality (GC). Our results were
two-fold: firstly, eSEM performance in correlating with SC was comparable to
those obtained from C and PC, but eSEM (not C nor PC) provides information
about directionality of the functional interactions. Second, interactions on a
time scale much smaller than the sampling time, captured by instantaneous
connectivity methods, are much more related to SC than slow directed influences
captured by the lagged analysis. Indeed the performance in correlating with SC
was much worse for GC and for the lagged version of eSEM. We expect these
results to supply further insights to the interplay between SC and functional
patterns, an important issue in the study of brain physiology and function.