Gr√∂bner Bases of Neural Ideals
The brain processes information about the environment via neural codes. The
neural ideal was introduced recently as an algebraic object that can be used to
better understand the combinatorial structure of neural codes. Every neural
ideal has a particular generating set, called the canonical form, that directly
encodes a minimal description of the receptive field structure intrinsic to the
neural code. On the other hand, for a given monomial order, any polynomial
ideal is also generated by its unique (reduced) Gr\"obner basis with respect to
that monomial order. How are these two types of generating sets -- canonical
forms and Gr\"obner bases -- related? Our main result states that if the
canonical form of a neural ideal is a Gr\"obner basis, then it is the universal
Gr\"obner basis (that is, the union of all reduced Gr\"obner bases).
Furthermore, we prove that this situation -- when the canonical form is a
Gr\"obner basis -- occurs precisely when the universal Gr\"obner basis contains
only pseudo-monomials (certain generalizations of monomials). Our results
motivate two questions: (1)~When is the canonical form a Gr\"obner basis?
(2)~When the universal Gr\"obner basis of a neural ideal is {\em not} a
canonical form, what can the non-pseudo-monomial elements in the basis tell us
about the receptive fields of the code? We give partial answers to both
questions. Along the way, we develop a representation of pseudo-monomials as
hypercubes in a Boolean lattice.