Exploiting plume structure to decode gas source distance using
  metal-oxide gas sensors
Estimating the distance of a gas source is important in many applications of
chemical sensing, like e.g. environmental monitoring, or chemically-guided
robot navigation. If an estimation of the gas concentration at the source is
available, source proximity can be estimated from the time-averaged gas
concentration at the sensing site. However, in turbulent environments, where
fast concentration fluctuations dominate, comparably long measurements are
required to obtain a reliable estimate. A lesser known feature that can be
exploited for distance estimation in a turbulent environment lies in the
relationship between source proximity and the temporal variance of the local
gas concentration - the farther the source, the more intermittent are gas
encounters. However, exploiting this feature requires measurement of changes in
gas concentration on a comparably fast time scale, that have up to now only
been achieved using photo-ionisation detectors. Here, we demonstrate that by
appropriate signal processing, off-the-shelf metal-oxide sensors are capable of
extracting rapidly fluctuating features of gas plumes that strongly correlate
with source distance. We show that with a straightforward analysis method it is
possible to decode events of large, consistent changes in the measured signal,
so-called 'bouts'. The frequency of these bouts predicts the distance of a gas
source in wind-tunnel experiments with good accuracy. In addition, we found
that the variance of bout counts indicates cross-wind offset to the centreline
of the gas plume. Our results offer an alternative approach to estimating gas
source proximity that is largely independent of gas concentration, using
off-the-shelf metal-oxide sensors. The analysis method we employ demands very
few computational resources and is suitable for low-power microcontrollers.