Ecosystems in the Mind: Fuzzy Cognitive Maps of the Kizilirmak Delta
  Wetlands in Turkey
Sustainability of ecosystems & ecosystem management are increasingly accepted
societal goals. Can conservation programs be improved by incorporating local
people's understanding of ecosystems? The Kizilirmak Delta is one of Turkey's
most important wetland complexes. It is also one of the most productive
agricultural deltas in Turkey. We obtained 31 cognitive models of the social &
ecological system. These models were converted to adjacency matrices, analyzed
using graph theoretical methods, & augmented into social cognitive maps. Causal
"What-if" scenarios were run to determine the trajectory of the ecosystem based
on models defined by stakeholders. Villagers had significantly larger numbers
of variables, more complex maps, a broader understanding of all the variables
that affect the Kizilirmak Delta, & mentioned more variables that control the
ecosystem than did NGO and government officials. Villagers adapting to changing
ecological & social conditions actively changed & challenged conditions through
the political process. Villagers were faced with many important forcing
functions that they could not control. Most of the variables defined by
villagers were related to agriculture and animal husbandry. Conservation
policies & ecosystem management must encompass larger environmental issues &
villagers' cognitive maps must be reconciled with that of NGOs & government
officials. Cognitive maps can serve as a basis for discussion when policies &
management options are formulated. A villager-centered cognitive mapping
approach is not only necessary because villagers resist conservation projects,
or because top down projects that do not take local knowledge systems into
account fail, but because it is the ethical and responsible way of doing
ecosystem management.