Simulations Suggest Pharmacological Methods for Rescuing Long-Term
  Potentiation
Congenital cognitive dysfunctions are frequently due to deficits in molecular
pathways that underlie synaptic plasticity. For example, Rubinstein-Taybi
syndrome (RTS) is due to a mutation in cbp, encoding the histone
acetyltransferase CREB-binding protein (CBP). CBP is a transcriptional
co-activator for CREB, and induction of CREB-dependent transcription plays a
key role in long-term memory (LTM). In animal models of RTS, mutations of cbp
impair LTM and late-phase long-term potentiation (LTP). To explore intervention
strategies to rescue the deficits in LTP, we extended a previous model of LTP
induction to describe histone acetylation and simulated LTP impairment due to
cbp mutation. Plausible drug effects were simulated by parameter changes, and
many increased LTP. However no parameter variation consistent with a
biochemical effect of a known drug fully restored LTP. Thus we examined paired
parameter variations. A pair that simulated the effects of a phosphodiesterase
inhibitor (slowing cAMP degradation) concurrent with a deacetylase inhibitor
(prolonging histone acetylation) restored LTP. Importantly these paired
parameter changes did not alter basal synaptic weight. A pair that simulated a
phosphodiesterase inhibitor and an acetyltransferase activator was similarly
effective. For both pairs strong additive synergism was present. These results
suggest that promoting histone acetylation while simultaneously slowing the
degradation of cAMP may constitute a promising strategy for restoring deficits
in LTP that may be associated with learning deficits in RTS. More generally
these results illustrate the strategy of combining modeling and empirical
studies may help design effective therapies for improving long-term synaptic
plasticity and learning in cognitive disorders.