Uncovering functional brain signature via random matrix theory
The brain is organized in a modular way, serving multiple functionalities.
This multiplicity requires that both positive (e.g. excitatory, phase-coherent)
and negative (e.g. inhibitory, phase-opposing) interactions take place across
brain modules. Unfortunately, most methods to detect modules from time series
either neglect or convert to positive any measured negative correlation. This
may leave a significant part of the sign-dependent functional structure
undetected. Here we present a novel method, based on random matrix theory, for
the identification of sign-dependent modules in the brain. Our method filters
out the joint effects of local (unit-specific) noise and global (system-wide)
dependencies that empirically obfuscate such structure. The method is
guaranteed to identify an optimally contrasted functional `signature', i.e. a
partition into modules that are positively correlated internally and negatively
correlated across. The method is purely data-driven, does not use any arbitrary
threshold or network projection, and outputs only statistically significant
structure. In measurements of neuronal gene expression in the biological clock
of mice, the method systematically uncovers two otherwise undetectable,
negatively correlated modules whose relative size and mutual interaction
strength are found to depend on photoperiod. The neurons alternating between
the two modules define a candidate region of functional plasticity for
circadian modulation.