The division of labor in communication: Speakers help listeners account
  for asymmetries in visual perspective
Recent debates over adults' theory of mind use have been fueled by surprising
failures of perspective-taking in communication, suggesting that
perspective-taking can be relatively effortful. How, then, should speakers and
listeners allocate their limited cognitive resources to successfully understand
one another? We argue for a resource-rational account of how agents navigate
this division of labor. Under this account, the cognitive effort an agent
chooses to allocate toward perspective-taking should depend flexibly on
expectations about their interlocutor's behavior in context. In particular, we
investigate the behavior of speakers in the influential director-matcher task
and show that they may be expected to take on more of this effort than
previously assumed. In Experiment 1, we explicitly manipulated the presence or
absence of occlusions and found that speakers systematically produced longer,
more specific referring expressions when it was clear that additional objects
could be in their partner's view but not their own. In Experiment 2, we compare
the scripted utterances used by confederates in prior work with those produced
by unscripted speakers in the same task. We found that confederate speakers are
systematically less informative than listeners would initially expect from
naive speakers in this context, but that listeners may use violations to adjust
their expectations over time. These results suggest that it may be boundedly
rational for listeners to reduce the effort put toward perspective-taking to a
certain extent given contextually appropriate pragmatic expectations.