Categorical Metadata Representation for Customized Text Classification
The performance of text classification has improved tremendously using
intelligently engineered neural-based models, especially those injecting
categorical metadata as additional information, e.g., using user/product
information for sentiment classification. These information have been used to
modify parts of the model (e.g., word embeddings, attention mechanisms) such
that results can be customized according to the metadata. We observe that
current representation methods for categorical metadata, which are devised for
human consumption, are not as effective as claimed in popular classification
methods, outperformed even by simple concatenation of categorical features in
the final layer of the sentence encoder. We conjecture that categorical
features are harder to represent for machine use, as available context only
indirectly describes the category, and even such context is often scarce (for
tail category). To this end, we propose to use basis vectors to effectively
incorporate categorical metadata on various parts of a neural-based model. This
additionally decreases the number of parameters dramatically, especially when
the number of categorical features is large. Extensive experiments on various
datasets with different properties are performed and show that through our
method, we can represent categorical metadata more effectively to customize
parts of the model, including unexplored ones, and increase the performance of
the model greatly.