ggRandomForests: Visually Exploring a Random Forest for Regression
Random Forests [Breiman:2001] (RF) are a fully non-parametric statistical
method requiring no distributional assumptions on covariate relation to the
response. RF are a robust, nonlinear technique that optimizes predictive
accuracy by fitting an ensemble of trees to stabilize model estimates. The
randomForestSRC package (http://cran.r-project.org/package=randomForestSRC) is
a unified treatment of Breiman's random forests for survival, regression and
classification problems. Predictive accuracy make RF an attractive alternative
to parametric models, though complexity and interpretability of the forest
hinder wider application of the method. We introduce the ggRandomForests
package (http://cran.r-project.org/package=ggRandomForests), for visually
understand random forest models grown in R with the randomForestSRC package.
  The vignette is a tutorial for using the ggRandomForests package with the
randomForestSRC package for building and post-processing a regression random
forest. In this tutorial, we explore a random forest model for the Boston
Housing Data, available in the MASS package. We grow a random forest for
regression and demonstrate how ggRandomForests can be used when determining
variable associations, interactions and how the response depends on predictive
variables within the model. The tutorial demonstrates the design and usage of
many of ggRandomForests functions and features how to modify and customize the
resulting ggplot2 graphic objects along the way.
  A development version of the ggRandomForests package is available on Github.
We invite comments, feature requests and bug reports for this package at
(https://github.com/ehrlinger/ggRandomForests).