Nonparametric Detection of Geometric Structures over Networks
Nonparametric detection of existence of an anomalous structure over a network
is investigated. Nodes corresponding to the anomalous structure (if one exists)
receive samples generated by a distribution q, which is different from a
distribution p generating samples for other nodes. If an anomalous structure
does not exist, all nodes receive samples generated by p. It is assumed that
the distributions p and q are arbitrary and unknown. The goal is to design
statistically consistent tests with probability of errors converging to zero as
the network size becomes asymptotically large. Kernel-based tests are proposed
based on maximum mean discrepancy that measures the distance between mean
embeddings of distributions into a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. Detection
of an anomalous interval over a line network is first studied. Sufficient
conditions on minimum and maximum sizes of candidate anomalous intervals are
characterized in order to guarantee the proposed test to be consistent. It is
also shown that certain necessary conditions must hold to guarantee any test to
be universally consistent. Comparison of sufficient and necessary conditions
yields that the proposed test is order-level optimal and nearly optimal
respectively in terms of minimum and maximum sizes of candidate anomalous
intervals. Generalization of the results to other networks is further
developed. Numerical results are provided to demonstrate the performance of the
proposed tests.