Dependent Indian Buffet Process-based Sparse Nonparametric Nonnegative
  Matrix Factorization
Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (NMF) aims to factorize a matrix into two
optimized nonnegative matrices appropriate for the intended applications. The
method has been widely used for unsupervised learning tasks, including
recommender systems (rating matrix of users by items) and document clustering
(weighting matrix of papers by keywords). However, traditional NMF methods
typically assume the number of latent factors (i.e., dimensionality of the
loading matrices) to be fixed. This assumption makes them inflexible for many
applications. In this paper, we propose a nonparametric NMF framework to
mitigate this issue by using dependent Indian Buffet Processes (dIBP). In a
nutshell, we apply a correlation function for the generation of two stick
weights associated with each pair of columns of loading matrices, while still
maintaining their respective marginal distribution specified by IBP. As a
consequence, the generation of two loading matrices will be column-wise
(indirectly) correlated. Under this same framework, two classes of correlation
function are proposed (1) using Bivariate beta distribution and (2) using
Copula function. Both methods allow us to adopt our work for various
applications by flexibly choosing an appropriate parameter settings. Compared
with the other state-of-the art approaches in this area, such as using Gaussian
Process (GP)-based dIBP, our work is seen to be much more flexible in terms of
allowing the two corresponding binary matrix columns to have greater variations
in their non-zero entries. Our experiments on the real-world and synthetic
datasets show that three proposed models perform well on the document
clustering task comparing standard NMF without predefining the dimension for
the factor matrices, and the Bivariate beta distribution-based and Copula-based
models have better flexibility than the GP-based model.