Jaccard analysis and LASSO-based feature selection for location
  fingerprinting with limited computational complexity
We propose an approach to reduce both computational complexity and data
storage requirements for the online positioning stage of a fingerprinting-based
indoor positioning system (FIPS) by introducing segmentation of the region of
interest (RoI) into sub-regions, sub-region selection using a modified Jaccard
index, and feature selection based on randomized least absolute shrinkage and
selection operator (LASSO). We implement these steps into a Bayesian framework
of position estimation using the maximum a posteriori (MAP) principle. An
additional benefit of these steps is that the time for estimating the position,
and the required data storage are virtually independent of the size of the RoI
and of the total number of available features within the RoI. Thus the proposed
steps facilitate application of FIPS to large areas. Results of an experimental
analysis using real data collected in an office building using a Nexus 6P smart
phone as user device and a total station for providing position ground truth
corroborate the expected performance of the proposed approach. The positioning
accuracy obtained by only processing 10 automatically identified features
instead of all available ones and limiting position estimation to 10
automatically identified sub-regions instead of the entire RoI is equivalent to
processing all available data. In the chosen example, 50% of the errors are
less than 1.8 m and 90% are less than 5 m. However, the computation time using
the automatically identified subset of data is only about 1% of that required
for processing the entire data set.