The Infinite Degree Corrected Stochastic Block Model
In Stochastic blockmodels, which are among the most prominent statistical
models for cluster analysis of complex networks, clusters are defined as groups
of nodes with statistically similar link probabilities within and between
groups. A recent extension by Karrer and Newman incorporates a node degree
correction to model degree heterogeneity within each group. Although this
demonstrably leads to better performance on several networks it is not obvious
whether modelling node degree is always appropriate or necessary. We formulate
the degree corrected stochastic blockmodel as a non-parametric Bayesian model,
incorporating a parameter to control the amount of degree correction which can
then be inferred from data. Additionally, our formulation yields principled
ways of inferring the number of groups as well as predicting missing links in
the network which can be used to quantify the model's predictive performance.
On synthetic data we demonstrate that including the degree correction yields
better performance both on recovering the true group structure and predicting
missing links when degree heterogeneity is present, whereas performance is on
par for data with no degree heterogeneity within clusters. On seven real
networks (with no ground truth group structure available) we show that
predictive performance is about equal whether or not degree correction is
included; however, for some networks significantly fewer clusters are
discovered when correcting for degree indicating that the data can be more
compactly explained by clusters of heterogenous degree nodes.