Sequential Quantiles via Hermite Series Density Estimation
Sequential quantile estimation refers to incorporating observations into
quantile estimates in an incremental fashion thus furnishing an online estimate
of one or more quantiles at any given point in time. Sequential quantile
estimation is also known as online quantile estimation. This area is relevant
to the analysis of data streams and to the one-pass analysis of massive data
sets. Applications include network traffic and latency analysis, real time
fraud detection and high frequency trading. We introduce new techniques for
online quantile estimation based on Hermite series estimators in the settings
of static quantile estimation and dynamic quantile estimation. In the static
quantile estimation setting we apply the existing Gauss-Hermite expansion in a
novel manner. In particular, we exploit the fact that Gauss-Hermite
coefficients can be updated in a sequential manner. To treat dynamic quantile
estimation we introduce a novel expansion with an exponentially weighted
estimator for the Gauss-Hermite coefficients which we term the Exponentially
Weighted Gauss-Hermite (EWGH) expansion. These algorithms go beyond existing
sequential quantile estimation algorithms in that they allow arbitrary
quantiles (as opposed to pre-specified quantiles) to be estimated at any point
in time. In doing so we provide a solution to online distribution function and
online quantile function estimation on data streams. In particular we derive an
analytical expression for the CDF and prove consistency results for the CDF
under certain conditions. In addition we analyse the associated quantile
estimator. Simulation studies and tests on real data reveal the Gauss-Hermite
based algorithms to be competitive with a leading existing algorithm.