ggRandomForests: Exploring Random Forest Survival
Random forest (Leo Breiman 2001a) (RF) is a non-parametric statistical method
requiring no distributional assumptions on covariate relation to the response.
RF is a robust, nonlinear technique that optimizes predictive accuracy by
fitting an ensemble of trees to stabilize model estimates. Random survival
forests (RSF) (Ishwaran and Kogalur 2007; Ishwaran et al. 2008) are an
extension of Breimans RF techniques allowing efficient nonparametric analysis
of time to event data. The randomForestSRC package (Ishwaran and Kogalur 2014)
is a unified treatment of Breimans random forest for survival, regression and
classification problems.
  Predictive accuracy makes RF an attractive alternative to parametric models,
though complexity and interpretability of the forest hinder wider application
of the method. We introduce the ggRandomForests package, tools for visually
understand random forest models grown in R (R Core Team 2014) with the
randomForestSRC package. The ggRandomForests package is structured to extract
intermediate data objects from randomForestSRC objects and generate figures
using the ggplot2 (Wickham 2009) graphics package.
  This document is structured as a tutorial for building random forest for
survival with the randomForestSRC package and using the ggRandomForests package
for investigating how the forest is constructed. We analyse the Primary Biliary
Cirrhosis of the liver data from a clinical trial at the Mayo Clinic (Fleming
and Harrington 1991). Our aim is to demonstrate the strength of using Random
Forest methods for both prediction and information retrieval, specifically in
time to event data settings.