Boundary Crossing Probabilities for General Exponential Families
We consider parametric exponential families of dimension $K$ on the real
line. We study a variant of \textit{boundary crossing probabilities} coming
from the multi-armed bandit literature, in the case when the real-valued
distributions form an exponential family of dimension $K$. Formally, our result
is a concentration inequality that bounds the probability that
$\mathcal{B}^\psi(\hat \theta_n,\theta^\star)\geq f(t/n)/n$, where
$\theta^\star$ is the parameter of an unknown target distribution, $\hat
\theta_n$ is the empirical parameter estimate built from $n$ observations,
$\psi$ is the log-partition function of the exponential family and
$\mathcal{B}^\psi$ is the corresponding Bregman divergence. From the
perspective of stochastic multi-armed bandits, we pay special attention to the
case when the boundary function $f$ is logarithmic, as it is enables to analyze
the regret of the state-of-the-art \KLUCB\ and \KLUCBp\ strategies, whose
analysis was left open in such generality. Indeed, previous results only hold
for the case when $K=1$, while we provide results for arbitrary finite
dimension $K$, thus considerably extending the existing results. Perhaps
surprisingly, we highlight that the proof techniques to achieve these strong
results already existed three decades ago in the work of T.L. Lai, and were
apparently forgotten in the bandit community. We provide a modern rewriting of
these beautiful techniques that we believe are useful beyond the application to
stochastic multi-armed bandits.