Anytime Monte Carlo
A Monte Carlo algorithm typically simulates some prescribed number of
samples, taking some random real time to complete the computations necessary.
This work considers the converse: to impose a real-time budget on the
computation, so that the number of samples simulated is random. To complicate
matters, the real time taken for each simulation may depend on the sample
produced, so that the samples themselves are not independent of their number,
and a length bias with respect to compute time is apparent. This is especially
problematic when a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm is used and the
final state of the Markov chain---rather than an average over all states---is
required. The length bias does not diminish with the compute budget in this
case. It occurs, for example, in sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) algorithms. We
propose an anytime framework to address the concern, using a continuous-time
Markov jump process to study the progress of the computation in real time. We
show that the length bias can be eliminated for any MCMC algorithm by using a
multiple chain construction. The utility of this construction is demonstrated
on a large-scale SMC-squared implementation, using four billion particles
distributed across a cluster of 128 graphics processing units on the Amazon EC2
service. The anytime framework imposes a real-time budget on the MCMC move
steps within SMC-squared, ensuring that all processors are simultaneously ready
for the resampling step, demonstrably reducing wait times and providing
substantial control over the total compute budget.