Multimodal, high-dimensional, model-based, Bayesian inverse problems
  with applications in biomechanics
This paper is concerned with the numerical solution of model-based, Bayesian
inverse problems. We are particularly interested in cases where the cost of
each likelihood evaluation (forward-model call) is expensive and the number of
un- known (latent) variables is high. This is the setting in many problems in
com- putational physics where forward models with nonlinear PDEs are used and
the parameters to be calibrated involve spatio-temporarily varying
coefficients, which upon discretization give rise to a high-dimensional vector
of unknowns. One of the consequences of the well-documented ill-posedness of
inverse prob- lems is the possibility of multiple solutions. While such
information is contained in the posterior density in Bayesian formulations, the
discovery of a single mode, let alone multiple, is a formidable task. The goal
of the present paper is two- fold. On one hand, we propose approximate,
adaptive inference strategies using mixture densities to capture multi-modal
posteriors, and on the other, to ex- tend our work in [1] with regards to
effective dimensionality reduction techniques that reveal low-dimensional
subspaces where the posterior variance is mostly concentrated. We validate the
model proposed by employing Importance Sam- pling which confirms that the bias
introduced is small and can be efficiently corrected if the analyst wishes to
do so. We demonstrate the performance of the proposed strategy in nonlinear
elastography where the identification of the mechanical properties of
biological materials can inform non-invasive, medical di- agnosis. The
discovery of multiple modes (solutions) in such problems is critical in
achieving the diagnostic objectives.