The Second Order Linear Model
We study a fundamental class of regression models called the second order
linear model (SLM). The SLM extends the linear model to high order functional
space and has attracted considerable research interest recently. Yet how to
efficiently learn the SLM under full generality using nonconvex solver still
remains an open question due to several fundamental limitations of the
conventional gradient descent learning framework. In this study, we try to
attack this problem from a gradient-free approach which we call the
moment-estimation-sequence (MES) method. We show that the conventional gradient
descent heuristic is biased by the skewness of the distribution therefore is no
longer the best practice of learning the SLM. Based on the MES framework, we
design a nonconvex alternating iteration process to train a $d$-dimension
rank-$k$ SLM within $O(kd)$ memory and one-pass of the dataset. The proposed
method converges globally and linearly, achieves $\epsilon$ recovery error
after retrieving $O[k^{2}d\cdot\mathrm{polylog}(kd/\epsilon)]$ samples.
Furthermore, our theoretical analysis reveals that not all SLMs can be learned
on every sub-gaussian distribution. When the instances are sampled from a
so-called $\tau$-MIP distribution, the SLM can be learned by $O(p/\tau^{2})$
samples where $p$ and $\tau$ are positive constants depending on the skewness
and kurtosis of the distribution. For non-MIP distribution, an addition
diagonal-free oracle is necessary and sufficient to guarantee the learnability
of the SLM. Numerical simulations verify the sharpness of our bounds on the
sampling complexity and the linear convergence rate of our algorithm.