Another Look at DWD: Thrifty Algorithm and Bayes Risk Consistency in
  RKHS
Distance weighted discrimination (DWD) is a margin-based classifier with an
interesting geometric motivation. DWD was originally proposed as a superior
alternative to the support vector machine (SVM), however DWD is yet to be
popular compared with the SVM. The main reasons are twofold. First, the
state-of-the-art algorithm for solving DWD is based on the second-order-cone
programming (SOCP), while the SVM is a quadratic programming problem which is
much more efficient to solve. Second, the current statistical theory of DWD
mainly focuses on the linear DWD for the high-dimension-low-sample-size setting
and data-piling, while the learning theory for the SVM mainly focuses on the
Bayes risk consistency of the kernel SVM. In fact, the Bayes risk consistency
of DWD is presented as an open problem in the original DWD paper. In this work,
we advance the current understanding of DWD from both computational and
theoretical perspectives. We propose a novel efficient algorithm for solving
DWD, and our algorithm can be several hundred times faster than the existing
state-of-the-art algorithm based on the SOCP. In addition, our algorithm can
handle the generalized DWD, while the SOCP algorithm only works well for a
special DWD but not the generalized DWD. Furthermore, we consider a natural
kernel DWD in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space and then establish the Bayes
risk consistency of the kernel DWD. We compare DWD and the SVM on several
benchmark data sets and show that the two have comparable classification
accuracy, but DWD equipped with our new algorithm can be much faster to compute
than the SVM.