Data-adaptive Active Sampling for Efficient Graph-Cognizant
  Classification
The present work deals with active sampling of graph nodes representing
training data for binary classification. The graph may be given or constructed
using similarity measures among nodal features. Leveraging the graph for
classification builds on the premise that labels across neighboring nodes are
correlated according to a categorical Markov random field (MRF). This model is
further relaxed to a Gaussian (G)MRF with labels taking continuous values - an
approximation that not only mitigates the combinatorial complexity of the
categorical model, but also offers optimal unbiased soft predictors of the
unlabeled nodes. The proposed sampling strategy is based on querying the node
whose label disclosure is expected to inflict the largest change on the GMRF,
and in this sense it is the most informative on average. Such a strategy
subsumes several measures of expected model change, including uncertainty
sampling, variance minimization, and sampling based on the $\Sigma-$optimality
criterion. A simple yet effective heuristic is also introduced for increasing
the exploration capabilities of the sampler, and reducing bias of the resultant
classifier, by taking into account the confidence on the model label
predictions. The novel sampling strategies are based on quantities that are
readily available without the need for model retraining, rendering them
computationally efficient and scalable to large graphs. Numerical tests using
synthetic and real data demonstrate that the proposed methods achieve accuracy
that is comparable or superior to the state-of-the-art even at reduced runtime.