A General Theory of Hypothesis Tests and Confidence Regions for Sparse
  High Dimensional Models
We consider the problem of uncertainty assessment for low dimensional
components in high dimensional models. Specifically, we propose a decorrelated
score function to handle the impact of high dimensional nuisance parameters. We
consider both hypothesis tests and confidence regions for generic penalized
M-estimators. Unlike most existing inferential methods which are tailored for
individual models, our approach provides a general framework for high
dimensional inference and is applicable to a wide range of applications. From
the testing perspective, we develop general theorems to characterize the
limiting distributions of the decorrelated score test statistic under both null
hypothesis and local alternatives. These results provide asymptotic guarantees
on the type I errors and local powers of the proposed test. Furthermore, we
show that the decorrelated score function can be used to construct point and
confidence region estimators that are semiparametrically efficient. We also
generalize this framework to broaden its applications. First, we extend it to
handle high dimensional null hypothesis, where the number of parameters of
interest can increase exponentially fast with the sample size. Second, we
establish the theory for model misspecification. Third, we go beyond the
likelihood framework, by introducing the generalized score test based on
general loss functions. Thorough numerical studies are conducted to back up the
developed theoretical results.