Binary hidden Markov models and varieties
The technological applications of hidden Markov models have been extremely
diverse and successful, including natural language processing, gesture
recognition, gene sequencing, and Kalman filtering of physical measurements.
HMMs are highly non-linear statistical models, and just as linear models are
amenable to linear algebraic techniques, non-linear models are amenable to
commutative algebra and algebraic geometry.
  This paper closely examines HMMs in which all the hidden random variables are
binary. Its main contributions are (1) a birational parametrization for every
such HMM, with an explicit inverse for recovering the hidden parameters in
terms of observables, (2) a semialgebraic model membership test for every such
HMM, and (3) minimal defining equations for the 4-node fully binary model,
comprising 21 quadrics and 29 cubics, which were computed using Grobner bases
in the cumulant coordinates of Sturmfels and Zwiernik. The new model parameters
in (1) are rationally identifiable in the sense of Sullivant, Garcia-Puente,
and Spielvogel, and each model's Zariski closure is therefore a rational
projective variety of dimension 5. Grobner basis computations for the model and
its graph are found to be considerably faster using these parameters. In the
case of two hidden states, item (2) supersedes a previous algorithm of
Schonhuth which is only generically defined, and the defining equations (3)
yield new invariants for HMMs of all lengths $\geq 4$. Such invariants have
been used successfully in model selection problems in phylogenetics, and one
can hope for similar applications in the case of HMMs.