Angle-Based Joint and Individual Variation Explained
Integrative analysis of disparate data blocks measured on a common set of
experimental subjects is a major challenge in modern data analysis. This data
structure naturally motivates the simultaneous exploration of the joint and
individual variation within each data block resulting in new insights. For
instance, there is a strong desire to integrate the multiple genomic data sets
in The Cancer Genome Atlas to characterize the common and also the unique
aspects of cancer genetics and cell biology for each source. In this paper we
introduce Angle-Based Joint and Individual Variation Explained capturing both
joint and individual variation within each data block. This is a major
improvement over earlier approaches to this challenge in terms of a new
conceptual understanding, much better adaption to data heterogeneity and a fast
linear algebra computation. Important mathematical contributions are the use of
score subspaces as the principal descriptors of variation structure and the use
of perturbation theory as the guide for variation segmentation. This leads to
an exploratory data analysis method which is insensitive to the heterogeneity
among data blocks and does not require separate normalization. An application
to cancer data reveals different behaviors of each type of signal in
characterizing tumor subtypes. An application to a mortality data set reveals
interesting historical lessons. Software and data are available at GitHub
<https://github.com/MeileiJiang/AJIVE_Project>.