A bag-of-paths framework for network data analysis
This work develops a generic framework, called the bag-of-paths (BoP), for
link and network data analysis. The central idea is to assign a probability
distribution on the set of all paths in a network. More precisely, a
Gibbs-Boltzmann distribution is defined over a bag of paths in a network, that
is, on a representation that considers all paths independently. We show that,
under this distribution, the probability of drawing a path connecting two nodes
can easily be computed in closed form by simple matrix inversion. This
probability captures a notion of relatedness between nodes of the graph: two
nodes are considered as highly related when they are connected by many,
preferably low-cost, paths. As an application, two families of distances
between nodes are derived from the BoP probabilities. Interestingly, the second
distance family interpolates between the shortest path distance and the
resistance distance. In addition, it extends the Bellman-Ford formula for
computing the shortest path distance in order to integrate sub-optimal paths by
simply replacing the minimum operator by the soft minimum operator.
Experimental results on semi-supervised classification show that both of the
new distance families are competitive with other state-of-the-art approaches.
In addition to the distance measures studied in this paper, the bag-of-paths
framework enables straightforward computation of many other relevant network
measures.