Monte Carlo Simulation for Lasso-Type Problems by Estimator Augmentation
Regularized linear regression under the $\ell_1$ penalty, such as the Lasso,
has been shown to be effective in variable selection and sparse modeling. The
sampling distribution of an $\ell_1$-penalized estimator $\hat{\beta}$ is hard
to determine as the estimator is defined by an optimization problem that in
general can only be solved numerically and many of its components may be
exactly zero. Let $S$ be the subgradient of the $\ell_1$ norm of the
coefficient vector $\beta$ evaluated at $\hat{\beta}$. We find that the joint
sampling distribution of $\hat{\beta}$ and $S$, together called an augmented
estimator, is much more tractable and has a closed-form density under a normal
error distribution in both low-dimensional ($p\leq n$) and high-dimensional
($p>n$) settings. Given $\beta$ and the error variance $\sigma^2$, one may
employ standard Monte Carlo methods, such as Markov chain Monte Carlo and
importance sampling, to draw samples from the distribution of the augmented
estimator and calculate expectations with respect to the sampling distribution
of $\hat{\beta}$. We develop a few concrete Monte Carlo algorithms and
demonstrate with numerical examples that our approach may offer huge advantages
and great flexibility in studying sampling distributions in $\ell_1$-penalized
linear regression. We also establish nonasymptotic bounds on the difference
between the true sampling distribution of $\hat{\beta}$ and its estimator
obtained by plugging in estimated parameters, which justifies the validity of
Monte Carlo simulation from an estimated sampling distribution even when $p\gg
n\to \infty$.