Online Algorithms For Parameter Mean And Variance Estimation In Dynamic
  Regression Models
We study the problem of estimating the parameters of a regression model from
a set of observations, each consisting of a response and a predictor. The
response is assumed to be related to the predictor via a regression model of
unknown parameters. Often, in such models the parameters to be estimated are
assumed to be constant. Here we consider the more general scenario where the
parameters are allowed to evolve over time, a more natural assumption for many
applications. We model these dynamics via a linear update equation with
additive noise that is often used in a wide range of engineering applications,
particularly in the well-known and widely used Kalman filter (where the system
state it seeks to estimate maps to the parameter values here). We derive an
approximate algorithm to estimate both the mean and the variance of the
parameter estimates in an online fashion for a generic regression model. This
algorithm turns out to be equivalent to the extended Kalman filter. We
specialize our algorithm to the multivariate exponential family distribution to
obtain a generalization of the generalized linear model (GLM). Because the
common regression models encountered in practice such as logistic, exponential
and multinomial all have observations modeled through an exponential family
distribution, our results are used to easily obtain algorithms for online mean
and variance parameter estimation for all these regression models in the
context of time-dependent parameters. Lastly, we propose to use these
algorithms in the contextual multi-armed bandit scenario, where so far model
parameters are assumed static and observations univariate and Gaussian or
Bernoulli. Both of these restrictions can be relaxed using the algorithms
described here, which we combine with Thompson sampling to show the resulting
performance on a simulation.