Learning Graphs with Monotone Topology Properties and Multiple Connected
  Components
Recent papers have formulated the problem of learning graphs from data as an
inverse covariance estimation with graph Laplacian constraints. While such
problems are convex, existing methods cannot guarantee that solutions will have
specific graph topology properties (e.g., being $k$-partite), which are
desirable for some applications. In fact, the problem of learning a graph with
given topology properties, e.g., finding the $k$-partite graph that best
matches the data, is in general non-convex. In this paper, we develop novel
theoretical results that provide performance guarantees for an approach to
solve these problems. Our solution decomposes this problem into two
sub-problems, for which efficient solutions are known. Specifically, a graph
topology inference (GTI) step is employed to select a feasible graph topology,
i.e., one having the desired property. Then, a graph weight estimation (GWE)
step is performed by solving a generalized graph Laplacian estimation problem,
where edges are constrained by the topology found in the GTI step. Our main
result is a bound on the error of the GWE step as a function of the error in
the GTI step. This error bound indicates that the GTI step should be solved
using an algorithm that approximates the similarity matrix by another matrix
whose entries have been thresholded to zero to have the desired type of graph
topology. The GTI stage can leverage existing methods (e.g., state of the art
approaches for graph coloring) which are typically based on minimizing the
total weight of removed edges. Since the GWE stage is formulated as an inverse
covariance estimation problem with linear constraints, it can be solved using
existing convex optimization methods. We demonstrate that our two step approach
can achieve good results for both synthetic and texture image data.