A signature-based machine learning model for bipolar disorder and
  borderline personality disorder
Mobile technologies offer opportunities for higher resolution monitoring of
health conditions. This opportunity seems of particular promise in psychiatry
where diagnoses often rely on retrospective and subjective recall of mood
states. However, getting actionable information from these rather complex time
series is challenging, and at present the implications for clinical care are
largely hypothetical. This research demonstrates that, with well chosen cohorts
(of bipolar disorder, borderline personality disorder, and control) and modern
methods, it is possible to objectively learn to identify distinctive behaviour
over short periods (20 reports) that effectively separate the cohorts.
Participants with bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder and
healthy volunteers completed daily mood ratings using a bespoke smartphone app
for up to a year. A signature-based machine learning model was used to classify
participants on the basis of the interrelationship between the different mood
items assessed and to predict subsequent mood. The signature methodology was
significantly superior to earlier statistical approaches applied to this data
in distinguishing the participant three groups, clearly placing 75% into their
original groups on the basis of their reports. Subsequent mood ratings were
correctly predicted with greater than 70% accuracy in all groups. Prediction of
mood was most accurate in healthy volunteers (89-98%) compared to bipolar
disorder (82-90%) and borderline personality disorder (70-78%).