Comparison of computer systems and ranking criteria for automatic
  melanoma detection in dermoscopic images
Melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. Computer systems can assist in
melanoma detection, but are not widespread in clinical practice. In 2016, an
open challenge in classification of dermoscopic images of skin lesions was
announced. A training set of 900 images with corresponding class labels and
semi-automatic/manual segmentation masks was released for the challenge. An
independent test set of 379 images was used to rank the participants. This
article demonstrates the impact of ranking criteria, segmentation method and
classifier, and highlights the clinical perspective. We compare five different
measures for diagnostic accuracy by analysing the resulting ranking of the
computer systems in the challenge. Choice of performance measure had great
impact on the ranking. Systems that were ranked among the top three for one
measure, dropped to the bottom half when changing performance measure. Nevus
Doctor, a computer system previously developed by the authors, was used to
investigate the impact of segmentation and classifier. The unexpected small
impact of automatic versus semi-automatic/manual segmentation suggests that
improvements of the automatic segmentation method w.r.t. resemblance to
semi-automatic/manual segmentation will not improve diagnostic accuracy
substantially. A small set of similar classification algorithms are used to
investigate the impact of classifier on the diagnostic accuracy. The
variability in diagnostic accuracy for different classifier algorithms was
larger than the variability for segmentation methods, and suggests a focus for
future investigations. From a clinical perspective, the misclassification of a
melanoma as benign has far greater cost than the misclassification of a benign
lesion. For computer systems to have clinical impact, their performance should
be ranked by a high-sensitivity measure.