General Bayesian Inference over the Stiefel Manifold via the Givens
  Representation
We introduce an approach based on the Givens representation that allows for a
routine, reliable, and flexible way to infer Bayesian models with orthogonal
matrix parameters. This class of models most notably includes models from
multivariate statistics such factor models and probabilistic principal
component analysis (PPCA). Our approach overcomes several of the practical
barriers to using the Givens representation in a general Bayesian inference
framework. In particular, we show how to inexpensively compute the
change-of-measure term necessary for transformations of random variables. We
also show how to overcome specific topological pathologies that arise when
representing circular random variables in an unconstrained space. In addition,
we discuss how the alternative parameterization can be used to define new
distributions over orthogonal matrices as well as to constrain parameter space
to eliminate superfluous posterior modes in models such as PPCA. While previous
inference approaches to this problem involved specialized updates to the
orthogonal matrix parameters, our approach lets us represent these constrained
parameters in an unconstrained form. Unlike previous approaches, this allows
for the inference of models with orthogonal matrix parameters using any modern
inference algorithm including those available in modern Bayesian modeling
frameworks such as Stan, Edward, or PyMC3. We illustrate with examples how our
approach can be used in practice in Stan to infer models with orthogonal matrix
parameters, and we compare to existing methods.