Multi-scale Mining of fMRI data with Hierarchical Structured Sparsity
Inverse inference, or "brain reading", is a recent paradigm for analyzing
functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, based on pattern recognition
and statistical learning. By predicting some cognitive variables related to
brain activation maps, this approach aims at decoding brain activity. Inverse
inference takes into account the multivariate information between voxels and is
currently the only way to assess how precisely some cognitive information is
encoded by the activity of neural populations within the whole brain. However,
it relies on a prediction function that is plagued by the curse of
dimensionality, since there are far more features than samples, i.e., more
voxels than fMRI volumes. To address this problem, different methods have been
proposed, such as, among others, univariate feature selection, feature
agglomeration and regularization techniques. In this paper, we consider a
sparse hierarchical structured regularization. Specifically, the penalization
we use is constructed from a tree that is obtained by spatially-constrained
agglomerative clustering. This approach encodes the spatial structure of the
data at different scales into the regularization, which makes the overall
prediction procedure more robust to inter-subject variability. The
regularization used induces the selection of spatially coherent predictive
brain regions simultaneously at different scales. We test our algorithm on real
data acquired to study the mental representation of objects, and we show that
the proposed algorithm not only delineates meaningful brain regions but yields
as well better prediction accuracy than reference methods.