Efficient Estimation in the Tails of Gaussian Copulas
We consider the question of efficient estimation in the tails of Gaussian
copulas. Our special focus is estimating expectations over multi-dimensional
constrained sets that have a small implied measure under the Gaussian copula.
We propose three estimators, all of which rely on a simple idea: identify
certain \emph{dominating} point(s) of the feasible set, and appropriately shift
and scale an exponential distribution for subsequent use within an importance
sampling measure. As we show, the efficiency of such estimators depends
crucially on the local structure of the feasible set around the dominating
points. The first of our proposed estimators $\estOpt$ is the
"full-information" estimator that actively exploits such local structure to
achieve bounded relative error in Gaussian settings. The second and third
estimators $\estExp$, $\estLap$ are "partial-information" estimators, for use
when complete information about the constraint set is not available, they do
not exhibit bounded relative error but are shown to achieve polynomial
efficiency. We provide sharp asymptotics for all three estimators. For the
NORTA setting where no ready information about the dominating points or the
feasible set structure is assumed, we construct a multinomial mixture of the
partial-information estimator $\estLap$ resulting in a fourth estimator
$\estNt$ with polynomial efficiency, and implementable through the ecoNORTA
algorithm. Numerical results on various example problems are remarkable, and
consistent with theory.