Dynamic Principal Component Analysis: Identifying the Relationship
  between Multiple Air Pollutants
The dynamic nature of air quality chemistry and transport makes it difficult
to identify the mixture of air pollutants for a region. In this study of air
quality in the Houston metropolitan area we apply dynamic principal component
analysis (DPCA) to a normalized multivariate time series of daily concentration
measurements of five pollutants (O3, CO, NO2, SO2, PM2.5) from January 1, 2009
through December 31, 2011 for each of the 24 hours in a day. The resulting
dynamic components are examined by hour across days for the 3 year period.
Diurnal and seasonal patterns are revealed underlining times when DPCA performs
best and two principal components (PCs) explain most variability in the
multivariate series. DPCA is shown to be superior to static principal component
analysis (PCA) in discovery of linear relations among transformed pollutant
measurements. DPCA captures the time-dependent correlation structure of the
underlying pollutants recorded at up to 34 monitoring sites in the region. In
winter mornings the first principal component (PC1) (mainly CO and NO2)
explains up to 70% of variability. Augmenting with the second principal
component (PC2) (mainly driven by SO2) the explained variability rises to 90%.
In the afternoon, O3 gains prominence in the second principal component. The
seasonal profile of PCs' contribution to variance loses its distinction in the
afternoon, yet cumulatively PC1 and PC2 still explain up to 65% of variability
in ambient air data. DPCA provides a strategy for identifying the changing air
quality profile for the region studied.