Mode-Seeking Clustering and Density Ridge Estimation via Direct
  Estimation of Density-Derivative-Ratios
Modes and ridges of the probability density function behind observed data are
useful geometric features. Mode-seeking clustering assigns cluster labels by
associating data samples with the nearest modes, and estimation of density
ridges enables us to find lower-dimensional structures hidden in data. A key
technical challenge both in mode-seeking clustering and density ridge
estimation is accurate estimation of the ratios of the first- and second-order
density derivatives to the density. A naive approach takes a three-step
approach of first estimating the data density, then computing its derivatives,
and finally taking their ratios. However, this three-step approach can be
unreliable because a good density estimator does not necessarily mean a good
density derivative estimator, and division by the estimated density could
significantly magnify the estimation error. To cope with these problems, we
propose a novel estimator for the \emph{density-derivative-ratios}. The
proposed estimator does not involve density estimation, but rather
\emph{directly} approximates the ratios of density derivatives of any order.
Moreover, we establish a convergence rate of the proposed estimator. Based on
the proposed estimator, novel methods both for mode-seeking clustering and
density ridge estimation are developed, and the respective convergence rates to
the mode and ridge of the underlying density are also established. Finally, we
experimentally demonstrate that the developed methods significantly outperform
existing methods, particularly for relatively high-dimensional data.