Simultaneous Inference for Best Linear Predictor of the Conditional
  Average Treatment Effect and Other Structural Functions
This paper provides estimation and inference methods for a structural
function, such as Conditional Average Treatment Effect (CATE), based on modern
machine learning (ML) tools. We assume that such function can be represented as
an expectation g(x) of a signal Y conditional on X that depends on an unknown
nuisance function. In addition to CATE, examples of such functions include
regression function with Partially Missing Outcome and Conditional Average
Partial Derivative. We approximate g(x) by a linear form that is a product of a
vector of the approximating basis functions p(x) and the Best Linear Predictor
(BLP), which we refer to a pseudo-target. Plugging in the first-stage estimate
of the nuisance function into the signal, we estimate BLP via ordinary least
squares. We deliver a high-quality estimate of the pseudo-target function that
features (a) a pointwise Gaussian approximation, (b) a simultaneous Gaussian
approximation, and (c) optimal rate of simultaneous convergence. In the case,
the misspecification error of the linear form decays sufficiently fast, these
approximations automatically hold for the target function g(x) instead of a
pseudo-target. The first stage nuisance parameter is allowed to be
high-dimensional and is estimated by modern ML tools, such as neural networks,
shrinkage estimators, and random forest. Using our method, we estimate the
average price elasticity conditional on income using Yatchew and No (2001) data
and provide simultaneous confidence bands for the target regression function.