Correcting Nuisance Variation using Wasserstein Distance
Profiling cellular phenotypes from microscopic imaging can provide meaningful
biological information resulting from various factors affecting the cells. One
motivating application is drug development: morphological cell features can be
captured from images, from which similarities between different drug compounds
applied at different doses can be quantified. The general approach is to find a
function mapping the images to an embedding space of manageable dimensionality
whose geometry captures relevant features of the input images. An important
known issue for such methods is separating relevant biological signal from
nuisance variation. For example, the embedding vectors tend to be more
correlated for cells that were cultured and imaged during the same week than
for those from different weeks, despite having identical drug compounds applied
in both cases. In this case, the particular batch in which a set of experiments
were conducted constitutes the domain of the data; an ideal set of image
embeddings should contain only the relevant biological information (e.g. drug
effects). We develop a general framework for adjusting the image embeddings in
order to `forget' domain-specific information while preserving relevant
biological information. To achieve this, we minimize a loss function based on
distances between marginal distributions (such as the Wasserstein distance) of
embeddings across domains for each replicated treatment. For the dataset we
present results with, the only replicated treatment happens to be the negative
control treatment, for which we do not expect any treatment-induced cell
morphology changes. We find that for our transformed embeddings (i) the
underlying geometric structure is not only preserved but the embeddings also
carry improved biological signal; and (ii) less domain-specific information is
present.