String and Membrane Gaussian Processes
In this paper we introduce a novel framework for making exact nonparametric
Bayesian inference on latent functions, that is particularly suitable for Big
Data tasks. Firstly, we introduce a class of stochastic processes we refer to
as string Gaussian processes (string GPs), which are not to be mistaken for
Gaussian processes operating on text. We construct string GPs so that their
finite-dimensional marginals exhibit suitable local conditional independence
structures, which allow for scalable, distributed, and flexible nonparametric
Bayesian inference, without resorting to approximations, and while ensuring
some mild global regularity constraints. Furthermore, string GP priors
naturally cope with heterogeneous input data, and the gradient of the learned
latent function is readily available for explanatory analysis. Secondly, we
provide some theoretical results relating our approach to the standard GP
paradigm. In particular, we prove that some string GPs are Gaussian processes,
which provides a complementary global perspective on our framework. Finally, we
derive a scalable and distributed MCMC scheme for supervised learning tasks
under string GP priors. The proposed MCMC scheme has computational time
complexity $\mathcal{O}(N)$ and memory requirement $\mathcal{O}(dN)$, where $N$
is the data size and $d$ the dimension of the input space. We illustrate the
efficacy of the proposed approach on several synthetic and real-world datasets,
including a dataset with $6$ millions input points and $8$ attributes.